GeneName	Description	Process	Comment
ABHD16A	A cluster of genes, BAT1-BAT5, has been localized in the vicinity of the genes for tumor necrosis factor alpha and tumor necrosis factor beta. These genes are all within the human major histocompatibility complex class III region. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be involved in some aspects of immunity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ADO	Human thiol dioxygenases include cysteine dioxygenase (CDO; MIM 603943) and cysteamine (2-aminoethanethiol) dioxygenase (ADO; EC 1.13.11.19). CDO adds 2 oxygen atoms to free cysteine, whereas ADO adds 2 oxygen atoms to free cysteamine to form hypotaurine (Dominy et al 2007 [PubMed 17581819]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ASS1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the penultimate step of the arginine biosynthetic pathway. There are approximately 10 to 14 copies of this gene including the pseudogenes scattered across the human genome, among which the one located on chromosome 9 appears to be the only functional gene for argininosuccinate synthetase. Mutations in the chromosome 9 copy of this gene cause citrullinemia. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012],	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BCAT1	This gene encodes the cytosolic form of the enzyme branched-chain amino acid transaminase. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible transamination of branched-chain alpha-keto acids to branched-chain L-amino acids essential for cell growth. Two different clinical disorders have been attributed to a defect of branched-chain amino acid transamination: hypervalinemia and hyperleucine-isoleucinemia. As there is also a gene encoding a mitochondrial form of this enzyme, mutations in either gene may contribute to these disorders. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DGLUCY	D-glutamate cyclase activity, glutamate metabolic process	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ETNPPL	cofactor:Pyridoxal phosphate similarity:Belongs to the class-III pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FAHD2B	May have hydrolase activity (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GLUD2	Important for recycling the chief excitatory neurotransmitter, glutamate, during neurotransmission	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GLUL	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutamine synthetase family. It catalyzes the synthesis of glutamine from glutamate and ammonia in an ATP-dependent reaction. This protein plays a role in ammonia and glutamate detoxification, acid-base homeostasis, cell signaling, and cell proliferation. Glutamine is an abundant amino acid, and is important to the biosynthesis of several amino acids, pyrimidines, and purines. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital glutamine deficiency, and overexpression of this gene was observed in some primary liver cancer samples. There are six pseudogenes of this gene found on chromosomes 2, 5, 9, 11, and 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014],	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
KYAT3	Catalyzes the irreversible transamination of the L- tryptophan metabolite L-kynurenine to form kynurenic acid (KA). May catalyze the beta-elimination of S-conjugates and Se- conjugates of L-(seleno)cysteine, resulting in the cleavage of the C-S or C-Se bond (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MMUT	Involved in the degradation of several amino acids, odd- chain fatty acids and cholesterol via propionyl-CoA to the tricarboxylic acid cycle. MCM has different functions in other species	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
OXCT2	Key enzyme for ketone body catabolism. Transfers the CoA moiety from succinate to acetoacetate. Formation of the enzyme-CoA intermediate proceeds via an unstable anhydride species formed between the carboxylate groups of the enzyme and substrate (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PHYKPL	This is a nuclear gene encoding a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 5-phosphonooxy-L-lysine to ammonia, inorganic phosphate, and 2-aminoadipate semialdehyde. Mutations in this gene may cause phosphohydroxylysinuria. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013],	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SQOR	The protein encoded by this gene may function in mitochondria to catalyze the conversion of sulfide to persulfides, thereby decreasing toxic concencrations of sulfide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	Amino Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DBT	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
BCKDHA	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
BCKDHB	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AUH	Catalyzes the conversion of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA to 3- hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA. Has very low enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. Was originally identified as RNA-binding protein that binds in vitro to clustered 5'-AUUUA-3' motifs	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ABHD11	This gene encodes a protein containing an alpha/beta hydrolase fold domain. This gene is deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
HIBCH	This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for hydrolysis of both HIBYL-CoA and beta-hydroxypropionyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene have been associated with 3-hyroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ACAT1	Plays a major role in ketone body metabolism	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
BCKDK	The branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex (BCKD) is an important regulator of the valine, leucine, and isoleucine catabolic pathways. The protein encoded by this gene is found in the mitochondrion, where it phosphorylates and inactivates BCKD. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
OXCT1	Key enzyme for ketone body catabolism. Transfers the CoA moiety from succinate to acetoacetate. Formation of the enzyme-CoA intermediate proceeds via an unstable anhydride species formed between the carboxylate groups of the enzyme and substrate	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDH4A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This enzyme is a mitochondrial matrix NAD-dependent dehydrogenase which catalyzes the second step of the proline degradation pathway, converting pyrroline-5-carboxylate to glutamate. Deficiency of this enzyme is associated with type II hyperprolinemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by accumulation of delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) and proline. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PRODH	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that catalyzes the first step in proline degradation. Mutations in this gene are associated with hyperprolinemia type 1 and susceptibility to schizophrenia 4 (SCZD4). This gene is located on chromosome 22q11.21, a region which has also been associated with the contiguous gene deletion syndromes, DiGeorge and CATCH22. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MCCC1	This gene encodes the large subunit of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase. This enzyme functions as a heterodimer and catalyzes the carboxylation of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA to form 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene are associated with 3-Methylcrotonylglycinuria, an autosomal recessive disorder of leucine catabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PCCA	The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric mitochondrial enzyme Propionyl-CoA carboxylase. PCCA encodes the biotin-binding region of this enzyme. Mutations in either PCCA or PCCB (encoding the beta subunit) lead to an enzyme deficiency resulting in propionic acidemia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
HIBADH	This gene encodes a mitochondrial 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase enzyme. The encoded protein plays a critical role in the catabolism of L-valine by catalyzing the oxidation of 3-hydroxyisobutyrate to methylmalonate semialdehyde. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDH6A1	Plays a role in valine and pyrimidine metabolism. Binds fatty acyl-CoA	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
IVD	Isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IVD) is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that catalyzes the third step in leucine catabolism. The genetic deficiency of IVD results in an accumulation of isovaleric acid, which is toxic to the central nervous system and leads to isovaleric acidemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ETHE1	This gene encodes a member of the metallo beta-lactamase family of iron-containing proteins involved in the mitochondrial sulfide oxidation pathway. The encoded protein catalyzes the oxidation of a persulfide substrate to sulfite. Certain mutations in this gene cause ethylmalonic encephalopathy, an infantile metabolic disorder affecting the brain, gastrointestinal tract and peripheral vessels. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GLS	Catalyzes the first reaction in the primary pathway for the renal catabolism of glutamine	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
DHTKD1	The 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: 2- oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
FAHD2A	May have hydrolase activity (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GLDC	The glycine cleavage system catalyzes the degradation of glycine. The P protein binds the alpha-amino group of glycine through its pyridoxal phosphate cofactor; CO(2) is released and the remaining methylamine moiety is then transferred to the lipoamide cofactor of the H protein	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GCAT	The degradation of L-threonine to glycine consists of a two-step biochemical pathway involving the enzymes L-threonine dehydrogenase and 2-amino-3-ketobutyrate coenzyme A ligase. L-Threonine is first converted into 2-amino-3-ketobutyrate by L-threonine dehydrogenase. This gene encodes the second enzyme in this pathway, which then catalyzes the reaction between 2-amino-3-ketobutyrate and coenzyme A to form glycine and acetyl-CoA. The encoded enzyme is considered a class II pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MCCC2	This gene encodes the small subunit of  3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase. This enzyme functions as a heterodimer and catalyzes the carboxylation of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA to form 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene are associated with 3-Methylcrotonylglycinuria, an  autosomal recessive disorder of leucine catabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MCEE	The product of this gene catalyzes the interconversion of D- and L-methylmalonyl-CoA during the degradation of branched chain amino acids. odd chain-length fatty acids, and other metabolites. Mutations in this gene result in methylmalonyl-CoA epimerase deficiency, which is presented as mild to moderate methylmalonic aciduria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PRODH2	Converts proline to delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (Probable)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
NIT2	Overexpression decreases the colony-forming capacity of cultured cells by arresting cells in the G2 phase of the cell cycle	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CKMT2	Mitochondrial creatine kinase (MtCK) is responsible for the transfer of high energy phosphate from mitochondria to the cytosolic carrier, creatine. It belongs to the creatine kinase isoenzyme family. It exists as two isoenzymes, sarcomeric MtCK and ubiquitous MtCK, encoded by separate genes. Mitochondrial creatine kinase occurs in two different oligomeric forms: dimers and octamers, in contrast to the exclusively dimeric cytosolic creatine kinase isoenzymes. Sarcomeric mitochondrial creatine kinase has 80% homology with the coding exons of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase. This gene contains sequences homologous to several motifs that are shared among some nuclear genes encoding mitochondrial proteins and thus may be essential for the coordinated activation of these genes during mitochondrial biogenesis. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
SUOX	Description: EC 1.8.3.1 [validated, MUID:95322455]; sulfite oxidase; catalyzes the oxidation of sulfite and water to sulfate and hydrogen peroxide by dioxygen,	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GATM	This gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme that belongs to the amidinotransferase family. This enzyme is involved in creatine biosynthesis, whereby it catalyzes the transfer of a guanido group from L-arginine to glycine, resulting in guanidinoacetic acid, the immediate precursor of creatine. Mutations in this gene cause arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency, an inborn error of creatine synthesis characterized by mental retardation, language impairment, and behavioral disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CHDH	The protein encoded by this gene is a choline dehydrogenase that localizes to the mitochondrion. Variations in this gene can affect susceptibility to choline deficiency. A few transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of only one has been characterized to date. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
OAT	Description: catalyzes the reversible transamination of L-ornithine and 2-oxoglutarate to form L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde and L-glutamate Pathway: arginine catabolism,	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
BCAT2	This gene encodes a branched chain aminotransferase found in mitochondria. The encoded protein forms a dimer that catalyzes the first step in the production of the branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
LAP3	catalytic activity:Release of an N-terminal amino acid, Xaa-|-Yaa-, in which Xaa is preferably Leu, but may be other amino acids including Pro although not Arg or Lys, and Yaa may be Pro. Amino acid amides and methyl esters are also readily hydrolyzed, but rates on arylamides are exceedingly lowcatalytic activity:Release of N-terminal proline from a peptidecofactor:Binds 2 zinc ions per subunit. One zinc ion is tightly bound and essential for enzyme activity, while the second metal coordination site can be occupied by zinc, magnesium or manganese to give enzymes of different activitiesfunction:Presumably involved in the processing and regular turnover of intracellular proteins. Catalyzes the removal of unsubstituted N-terminal amino acids from various peptidessimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M17 familysubunit:Homohexamer	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GLUD1	May be involved in learning and memory reactions by increasing the turnover of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
HMGCL	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA lyase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the final step of leucine degradation and plays a key role in ketone body formation. Mutations in this gene are associated with HMG-CoA lyase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDH18A1	This gene is a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family and encodes a bifunctional ATP- and NADPH-dependent mitochondrial enzyme with both gamma-glutamyl kinase and gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase activities. The encoded protein catalyzes the reduction of glutamate to delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate, a critical step in the de novo biosynthesis of proline, ornithine and arginine. Mutations in this gene lead to hyperammonemia, hypoornithinemia, hypocitrullinemia, hypoargininemia and hypoprolinemia and may be associated with neurodegeneration, cataracts and connective tissue diseases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants, encoding different isoforms, have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GSTZ1	Bifunctional enzyme showing minimal glutathione- conjugating activity with ethacrynic acid and 7-chloro-4- nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole and maleylacetoacetate isomerase activity. Has also low glutathione peroxidase activity with T- butyl and cumene hydroperoxides. Is able to catalyze the glutathione dependent oxygenation of dichloroacetic acid to glyoxylic acid	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDF	Removes the formyl group from the N-terminal Met of newly synthesized proteins (By similarity)Required for normal Golgi function (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AMT	The glycine cleavage system catalyzes the degradation of glycine	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AADAT	Shows activity also towards tryptophan, aspartate and hydroxykinurenine	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AASS	Bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the first two steps in lysine degradation. The N-terminal and the C-terminal contain lysine-ketoglutarate reductase and saccharopine dehydrogenase activity, respectively	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AGXT2	The protein encoded by this gene is a class III pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent mitochondrial aminotransferase. It catalyzes the conversion of glyoxylate to glycine using L-alanine as the amino donor. It is an important regulator of methylarginines and is involved in the control of blood pressure in kidney. Polymorphisms in this gene affect methylarginine and beta-aminoisobutyrate metabolism, and are associated with carotid atherosclerosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GLS2	Plays an important role in the regulation of glutamine catabolism	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GCSH	The glycine cleavage system catalyzes the degradation of glycine. The H protein shuttles the methylamine group of glycine from the P protein to the T protein	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GPT2	This gene encodes a mitochondrial alanine transaminase, a pyridoxal enzyme that catalyzes the reversible transamination between alanine and 2-oxoglutarate to generate pyruvate and glutamate. Alanine transaminases play roles in gluconeogenesis and amino acid metabolism in many tissues including skeletal muscle, kidney, and liver. Activating transcription factor 4 upregulates this gene under metabolic stress conditions in hepatocyte cell lines. A loss of function mutation in this gene has been associated with developmental encephalopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
TST	Formation of iron-sulfur complexes, cyanide detoxification or modification of sulfur-containing enzymes. Other thiol compounds, besides cyanide, can act as sulfur ion acceptors. Also has weak mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (MST) activity (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
NIT1	This gene encodes a member of the nitrilase protein family with homology to bacterial and plant nitrilases, enzymes that cleave nitriles and organic amides to the corresponding carboxylic acids plus ammonia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
FAHD1	May have hydrolase activity	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
KMO	This gene encodes a mitochondrion outer membrane protein that catalyzes the hydroxylation of L-tryptophan metabolite, L-kynurenine, to form L-3-hydroxykynurenine. Studies in yeast identified this gene as a therapeutic target for Huntington disease. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
NADK2	This gene encodes a mitochondrial kinase that catalyzes the phosphorylation of NAD to yield NADP. Mutations in this gene result in 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MPST	Transfer of a sulfur ion to cyanide or to other thiol compounds. Also has weak rhodanese activity. May have a role in cyanide degradation or in thiosulfate biosynthesis	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDH5A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This gene encodes a mitochondrial NAD(+)-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase. A deficiency of this enzyme, known as 4-hydroxybutyricaciduria, is a rare inborn error in the metabolism of the neurotransmitter 4-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In response to the defect, physiologic fluids from patients accumulate GHB, a compound with numerous neuromodulatory properties. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CKMT1A	Mitochondrial creatine (MtCK) kinase is responsible for the transfer of high energy phosphate from mitochondria to the cytosolic carrier, creatine. It belongs to the creatine kinase isoenzyme family. It exists as two isoenzymes, sarcomeric MtCK and ubiquitous MtCK, encoded by separate genes. Mitochondrial creatine kinase occurs in two different oligomeric forms: dimers and octamers, in contrast to the exclusively dimeric cytosolic creatine kinase isoenzymes. Many malignant cancers with poor prognosis have shown overexpression of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase; this may be related to high energy turnover and failure to eliminate cancer cells via apoptosis. Ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase has 80% homology with the coding exons of sarcomeric mitochondrial creatine kinase. Two genes located near each other on chromosome 15 have been identified which encode identical mitochondrial creatine kinase proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
HMGCS2	This enzyme condenses acetyl-CoA with acetoacetyl-CoA to form HMG-CoA, which is the substrate for HMG-CoA reductase	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ABAT	Catalyzes the conversion of gamma-aminobutyrate and L- beta-aminoisobutyrate to succinate semialdehyde and methylmalonate semialdehyde, respectively. Can also convert delta-aminovalerate and beta-alanine	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ABHD10	This gene encodes a mitochondrially-localized enzyme that acts in liver cells as a hydrolase. The encoded protein removes glucuronide from mycophenolic acid acyl-glucuronide. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
GOT2	Facilitates cellular uptake of long-chain free fatty acids (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
SUGCT	This gene encodes a protein that is similar to members of the CaiB/baiF CoA-transferase protein family. Mutations in this gene are associated with glutaric aciduria type III. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PYCR2	This gene belongs to the pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase family. The encoded mitochondrial protein catalyzes the conversion of pyrroline-5-carboxylate to proline, which is the last step in proline biosynthesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
QDPR	This gene encodes the enzyme dihydropteridine reductase, which catalyzes the NADH-mediated reduction of quinonoid dihydrobiopterin.  This enzyme is an essential component of the pterin-dependent aromatic amino acid hydroxylating systems. Mutations in this gene resulting in QDPR deficiency include aberrant splicing, amino acid substitutions, insertions, or premature terminations.  Dihydropteridine reductase deficiency presents as atypical phenylketonuria due to insufficient production of biopterin, a cofactor for phenylalanine hydroxylase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AGMAT	catalytic activity:Agmatine + H(2)O = putrescine + ureacofactor:Manganese pathway:Amine and polyamine biosynthesis; putrescine biosynthesis via agmatine pathway; putrescine from agmatine (ADC route): step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the arginase family. Agmatinase subfamilytissue specificity:Highly expressed in liver and kidney. Also found in skeletal muscle, fetal liver, brain, testis, skin and the gastrointestinal tract	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MAOB	Catalyzes the oxidative deamination of biogenic and xenobiotic amines and has important functions in the metabolism of neuroactive and vasoactive amines in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues. MAOB preferentially degrades benzylamine and phenylethylamine	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AGXT	Description: catalyzes the transamination of L-serine and pyruvate to 3-hydroxpyruvate and L-alanine; catalyzes the transamination of L-alanine and glyoxylate to pyruvate and glycine,	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PPM1K	This gene encodes a member of the PPM family of Mn2+/Mg2+-dependent protein phosphatases. The encoded protein, essential for cell survival and development, is targeted to the mitochondria where it plays a key role in regulation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MAOA	Catalyzes the oxidative deamination of biogenic and xenobiotic amines and has important functions in the metabolism of neuroactive and vasoactive amines in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues. MAOA preferentially oxidizes biogenic amines such as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), norepinephrine and epinephrine	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PYCR1	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the NAD(P)H-dependent conversion of pyrroline-5-carboxylate to proline. This enzyme may also play a physiologic role in the generation of NADP(+) in some cell types. The protein forms a homopolymer and localizes to the mitochondrion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CKMT1B	Mitochondrial creatine (MtCK) kinase is responsible for the transfer of high energy phosphate from mitochondria to the cytosolic carrier, creatine. It belongs to the creatine kinase isoenzyme family. It exists as two isoenzymes, sarcomeric MtCK and ubiquitous MtCK, encoded by separate genes. Mitochondrial creatine kinase occurs in two different oligomeric forms: dimers and octamers, in contrast to the exclusively dimeric cytosolic creatine kinase isoenzymes. Many malignant cancers with poor prognosis have shown overexpression of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase; this may be related to high energy turnover and failure to eliminate cancer cells via apoptosis. Ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase has 80% homology with the coding exons of sarcomeric mitochondrial creatine kinase. Two genes located near each other on chromosome 15 have been identified which encode identical mitochondrial creatine kinase proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Amino Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ANP32A	Implicated in a number of cellular processes, including proliferation, differentiation, caspase-dependent and caspase- independent apoptosis, suppression of transformation (tumor suppressor), inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A, regulation of mRNA trafficking and stability in association with ELAVL1, and inhibition of acetyltransferases as part of the INHAT (inhibitor of histone acetyltransferases) complex. Plays a role in E4F1- mediated transcriptional repression	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
APAF1	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that initiates apoptosis. This protein contains several copies of the WD-40 domain, a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and an ATPase domain (NB-ARC). Upon binding cytochrome c and dATP, this protein forms an oligomeric apoptosome. The apoptosome binds and cleaves caspase 9 preproprotein, releasing its mature, activated form. Activated caspase 9 stimulates the subsequent caspase cascade that commits the cell to apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BBC3	This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 family of proteins. This family member belongs to the BH3-only pro-apoptotic subclass. The protein cooperates with direct activator proteins to induce mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization and apoptosis. It can bind to anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members to induce mitochondrial dysfunction and caspase activation. Because of its pro-apoptotic role, this gene is a potential drug target for cancer therapy and for tissue injury. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BCL2L11	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The protein encoded by this gene contains a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3). It has been shown to interact with other members of the BCL-2 protein family and to act as an apoptotic activator. The expression of this gene can be induced by nerve growth factor (NGF), as well as by the forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1, which suggests a role of this gene in neuronal and lymphocyte apoptosis. Transgenic studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this gene functions as an essential initiator of apoptosis in thymocyte-negative selection. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BIK	Accelerates programmed cell death. Binding to the apoptosis repressors Bcl-X(L), BHRF1, Bcl-2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k protein suppresses this death-promoting activity. Does not interact with BAX	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BIRC8	Protects against apoptosis mediated by BAX	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BNIP1	SNARE that may be involved in targeting and fusion of Golgi-derived retrograde transport vesicles with the ER. Required for maintenance of ER network. Implicated in the suppression of cell death	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BOK	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 family, members of which form homo- or heterodimers, and act as anti- or proapoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes. Studies in rat show that this protein has restricted expression in reproductive tissues, interacts strongly with some antiapoptotic BCL2 proteins, not at all with proapoptotic BCL2 proteins, and induces apoptosis in transfected cells. Thus, this protein represents a proapoptotic member of the BCL2 family. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CASP2	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Might function by either activating some proteins required for cell death or inactivating proteins necessary for cell survival	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CASP3	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. At the onset of apoptosis it proteolytically cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) at a '216-Asp-|-Gly-217' bond. Cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) between the basic helix-loop- helix leucine zipper domain and the membrane attachment domain. Cleaves and activates caspase-6, -7 and -9. Involved in the cleavage of huntingtin	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CASP7	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs). Proteolytically cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) at a '216-Asp-|-Gly- 217' bond. Overexpression promotes programmed cell death	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CASP9	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Binding of caspase-9 to Apaf- 1 leads to activation of the protease which then cleaves and activates caspase-3. Proteolytically cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)Isoform 2 lacks activity is an dominant-negative inhibitor of caspase-9	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CSNK2A1	Casein kinase II is a serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins such as casein. It is involved in various cellular processes, including cell cycle control, apoptosis, and circadian rhythm. The kinase exists as a tetramer and is composed of an alpha, an alpha-prime, and two beta subunits. The alpha subunits contain the catalytic activity while the beta subunits undergo autophosphorylation. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit.	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CTSB	Thiol protease which is believed to participate in intracellular degradation and turnover of proteins. Has also been implicated in tumor invasion and metastasis	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DELE1	extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DYNLL1	Binds and inhibits the catalytic activity of neuronal nitric oxide synthaseMay be involved in some aspects of dynein-related intracellular transport and motility. May play a role in changing or maintaining the spatial distribution of cytoskeletal structures	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MAPK1	This gene encodes a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. The activation of this kinase requires its phosphorylation by upstream kinases. Upon activation, this kinase translocates to the nucleus of the stimulated cells, where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. One study also suggests that this protein acts as a transcriptional repressor independent of its kinase activity. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein, but differing in the UTRs, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MAPK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act in a signaling cascade that regulates various cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and cell cycle progression in response to a variety of extracellular signals. This kinase is activated by upstream kinases, resulting in its translocation to the nucleus where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MAPK8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is activated by various cell stimuli, and targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-early gene expression in response to cell stimuli. The activation of this kinase by tumor-necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is found to be required for TNF-alpha induced apoptosis. This kinase is also involved in UV radiation induced apoptosis, which is thought to be related to cytochrom c-mediated cell death pathway. Studies of the mouse counterpart of this gene suggested that this kinase play a key role in T cell proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. 	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MCL1	This gene encodes an anti-apoptotic protein, which is a member of the Bcl-2 family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The longest gene product (isoform 1) enhances cell survival by inhibiting apoptosis while the alternatively spliced shorter gene products (isoform 2 and isoform 3) promote apoptosis and are death-inducing. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PACRG	This gene encodes a protein that is conserved across metazoans. In vertebrates, this gene is linked in a head-to-head arrangement with the adjacent parkin gene, which is associated with autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinson&apos;s disease. These genes are co-regulated in various tissues and they share a bi-directional promoter. Both genes are associated with susceptibility to leprosy. The parkin co-regulated gene protein forms a large molecular complex with chaperones, including heat shock proteins 70 and 90, and chaperonin components. This protein is also a component of Lewy bodies in Parkinson&apos;s disease patients, and it suppresses unfolded Pael receptor-induced neuronal cell death. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RPS6KB1	Phosphorylates specifically ribosomal protein S6 in response to insulin or several classes of mitogens	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TMEM173	Acts as a facilitator of innate immune signaling. Able to activate both NF-kappa-B and IRF3 transcription pathways to induce expression of type I interferon (IFN-alpha and IFN-beta) and exert a potent anti-viral state following expression. May be involved in translocon function, the translocon possibly being able to influence the induction of type I interferons. May be involved in transduction of apoptotic signals via its association with the major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II). Mediates death signaling via activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
XIAP	Apoptotic suppressor. Has E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. Mediates the proteasomal degradation of target proteins, such as caspase-3, SMAC or AIFM1. Inhibitor of caspase-3, -7 and -9. Mediates activation of MAP3K7/TAK1, leading to the activation of NF-kappa-B	Apoptosis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LETMD1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial outer membrane protein. It has a potential role in tumorigenesis, which may result from negative regulation of the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
AIFM1	Possesses significant protein thiol-disulfide oxidase activityProbable oxidoreductase that acts as a caspase- independent mitochondrial effector of apoptotic cell death. Extramitochondrial AIF induces nuclear chromatin condensation and large scale DNA fragmentation (in vitro). Binds to DNA in a sequence-independent manner	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
GHITM	similarity:Belongs to the BI1 family	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
MTCH2	The substrate transported is not yet known. Induces mitochondrial depolarization	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
TRAP1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial chaperone protein that is member of the heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) family. The encoded protein has ATPase activity and interacts with tumor necrosis factor type I. This protein may function in regulating cellular stress responses. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
ALKBH7	similarity:Belongs to the alkB family	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
MTCH1	Potential mitochondrial transporter. May play a role in apoptosis	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
TRIAP1	Mediates cell survival by inhibiting activation of caspase-9 which prevents induction of apoptosis	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
GFER	FAD-dependent sulfhydryl oxidase that catalyzes disulfide bond formation (By similarity)	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
APOPT1	This gene encodes a protein that localizes to the mitochondria, where it stimulates the release of cytochrome c, thereby promoting programmed cell death. Mutations in this gene have been found in individuals with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
DIABLO	Promotes apoptosis by activating caspases in the cytochrome c/Apaf-1/caspase-9 pathway. Acts by opposing the inhibitory activity of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAP)	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
FAM162A	induction:By 17-beta-estradiolsimilarity:Belongs to the UPF0389 family	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
PRELID1	May be important for the development of vital and immunocompetent organs	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
HTRA2	Serine protease that shows proteolytic activity against a non-specific substrate beta-casein. Promotes or induces cell death either by direct binding to and inhibition of BIRC proteins (also called inhibitor of apoptosis proteins, IAPs), leading to an increase in caspase activity, or by a BIRC inhibition-independent, caspase-independent and serine protease activity-dependent mechanism. Isoform 2 seems to be proteolytically inactive	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
PARL	This gene encodes a member of the rhomboid family of intramembrane serine proteases that is localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein regulates mitochondrial remodeling and apoptosis through regulated substrate proteolysis. Proteolytic processing of the encoded protein results in the release of a small peptide, P-beta, which may transit to the nucleus. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Parkinson&apos;s disease. [provided by RefSeq, May 2016],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
AIFM3	Induces apoptosis through a caspase dependent pathway. Reduces mitochondrial membrane potential	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BAX	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein forms a heterodimer with BCL2, and functions as an apoptotic activator. This protein is reported to interact with, and increase the opening of, the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), which leads to the loss in membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. The expression of this gene is regulated by the tumor suppressor P53 and has been shown to be involved in P53-mediated apoptosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BCL2L13	May promote the activation of caspase-3 and apoptosis	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
TSPO	Responsible for the manifestation of peripheral-type benzodiazepine recognition sites and is most likely to comprise binding domains for benzodiazepines and isoquinoline carboxamides. May play a role in the transport of porphyrins and heme. Plays a role in the transport of cholesterol across mitochondrial membranes in steroidogenic cells (By similarity)	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BID	The major proteolytic product p15 BID allows the release of cytochrome c (By similarity). Isoform 1, isoform 2 and isoform 4 induce ICE-like proteases and apoptosis. Isoform 3 does not induce apoptosis. Counters the protective effect of Bcl-2	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BAK1	In the presence of an appropriate stimulus, accelerates programmed cell death by binding to, and antagonizing the a repressor Bcl-2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k proteinIn the presence of an appropriate stimulus, accelerates programmed cell death by binding to, and antagonizing the a. repressor BCL2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k protein. Low micromolar levels of zinc ions inhibit the promotion of apoptosis	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BNIP3	This gene is encodes a mitochondrial protein that contains a BH3 domain and acts as a pro-apoptotic factor. The encoded protein interacts with anti-apoptotic proteins, including the E1B 19 kDa protein and Bcl2. This gene is silenced in tumors by DNA methylation. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
AIFM2	Oxidoreductase, which may play a role in mediating a TP53/p53-dependent apoptosis response. Probable oxidoreductase that acts as a caspase-independent mitochondrial effector of apoptotic cell death. Binds to DNA in a sequence-independent manner. May contribute to genotoxin-induced growth arrest	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BNIP3L	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the pro-apoptotic subfamily within the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The encoded protein binds to Bcl-2 and possesses the BH3 domain. The protein directly targets mitochondria and causes apoptotic changes, including loss of membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
PMAIP1	Promotes activation of caspases and apoptosis. Promotes mitochondrial membrane changes and efflux of apoptogenic proteins from the mitochondria. Contributes to p53-dependent apoptosis after radiation exposure. Promotes proteasomal degradation of MCL1. Competes with BAK1 for binding to MCL1 and can displace BAK1 from its binding site on MCL1 (By similarity). Competes with BIM/BCL2L11 for binding to MCL1 and can displace BIM/BCL2L11 from its binding site on MCL1	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
CASP8	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain, a large protease subunit, and a small protease subunit. Activation of caspases requires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues to generate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits. This protein is involved in the programmed cell death induced by Fas and various apoptotic stimuli. The N-terminal FADD-like death effector domain of this protein suggests that it may interact with Fas-interacting protein FADD. This protein was detected in the insoluble fraction of the affected brain region from Huntington disease patients but not in those from normal controls, which implicated the role in neurodegenerative diseases. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described, although not all variants have had their full-length sequences determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BCL2L1	Potent inhibitor of cell death. Isoform Bcl-X(L) anti- apoptotic activity is inhibited by association with SIVA isoform 1. Inhibits activation of caspases (By similarity). Appears to regulate cell death by blocking the voltage-dependent anion channnel (VDAC) by binding to it and preventing the release of the caspase activator, cytochrome c, from the mitochondrial membrane. The Bcl-X(S) isoform promotes apoptosis	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
ARMC10	This gene encodes a protein that contains an armadillo repeat and transmembrane domain. The encoded protein decreases the transcriptional activity of the tumor suppressor protein p53 through direct interaction with the DNA-binding domain of p53, and may play a role in cell growth and survival. Upregulation of this gene may play a role in hepatocellular carcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BCL2L2	Promotes cell survival. Blocks dexamethasone-induced apoptosis. Mediates survival of postmitotic Sertoli cells by suppressing death-promoting activity of BAX	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BCL2	This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks the apoptotic death of some cells such as lymphocytes. Constitutive expression of BCL2, such as in the case of translocation of BCL2 to Ig heavy chain locus, is thought to be the cause of follicular lymphoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
BAD	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BCL-2 family. BCL-2 family members are known to be regulators of programmed cell death. This protein positively regulates cell apoptosis by forming heterodimers with BCL-xL and BCL-2, and reversing their death repressor activity. Proapoptotic activity of this protein is regulated through its phosphorylation. Protein kinases AKT and MAP kinase, as well as protein phosphatase calcineurin were found to be involved in the regulation of this protein. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants which encode the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
CLIC4	Can insert into membranes and form poorly selective ion channels that may also transport chloride ions. Channel activity depends on the pH. Membrane insertion seems to be redox-regulated and may occur only under oxydizing conditions. Promotes cell- surface expression of HRH3. May play a role in angiogenesis (By similarity)	Apoptosis	present in both datasets 
STAR	Plays a key role in steroid hormone synthesis by enhancing the metabolism of cholesterol into pregnenolone. Mediates the transfer of cholesterol from the outer mitochondrial membrane to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it is cleaved to pregnenolone	Bile Acid Synthesis	present in both datasets 
AMACR	Racemization of 2-methyl-branched fatty acid CoA esters. Responsible for the conversion of pristanoyl-CoA and C27-bile acyl-CoAs to their (S)-stereoisomers	Bile Acid Synthesis	present in both datasets 
ITPR1	This gene encodes an intracellular receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. Upon stimulation by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, this receptor mediates calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 15, a disease associated with an heterogeneous group of cerebellar disorders. Multiple transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009],	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ITPR2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor family, whose members are second messenger intracellular calcium release channels. These proteins mediate a rise in cytoplasmic calcium in response to receptor activated production of inositol triphosphate. Inositol triphosphate receptor-mediated signaling is involved in many processes including cell migration, cell division, smooth muscle contraction, and neuronal signaling. This protein is a type 2 receptor that consists of a cytoplasmic amino-terminus that binds inositol triphosphate, six membrane-spanning helices that contribute to the ion pore, and a short cytoplasmic carboxy-terminus. A mutation in this gene has been associated with anhidrosis, suggesting that intracellular calcium release mediated by this protein is required for eccrine sweat production. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015],	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ITPR3	This gene encodes a receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, a second messenger that mediates the release of intracellular calcium. The receptor contains a calcium channel at the C-terminus and the ligand-binding site at the N-terminus. Knockout studies in mice suggest that type 2 and type 3 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors play a key role in exocrine secretion underlying energy metabolism and growth. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010],	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MAIP1	calcium import into the mitochondrion; mitochondrial calcium ion transmembrane transport	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MCUB	similarity:Belongs to the CCDC109 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MICU3	miscellaneous:Binds calcium similarity:Contains 3 EF-hand domains	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PACS2	function:Multifunctional sorting protein that controls the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria communication, including the apposition of mitochondria with the ER and ER homeostasis. In addition, in response to apoptic inducer, translocates BIB to mitochondria, which initiates a sequence of events including the formation of mitochondrial truncated BID, the release of cytochrome c, the activation of caspase-3 thereby causing cell death. May also be involved in ion channel trafficking, directing acidic cluster-containing ion channels to distinct subcellular compartmentssimilarity:Belongs to the PACS familysubunit:Interacts with BID and PKD2tissue specificity:Broadly expressed, with greatest levels in skeletal muscle followed by heart, brain, pancreas and testis	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PML	Probable transcription factor. May play an important role in recruitment of ELF4 into PML nuclear bodies	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC8B1	Transports Ca(2+) in exchange for either Li(+) or Na(+), explaining how Li(+) catalyzes Ca(2+) exchange. In contrast to other members of the family its function is independent of K(+)	Calcium Signaling & Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LETM1	This gene encodes a protein that is localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane. The protein functions to maintain the mitochondrial tubular shapes and is required for normal mitochondrial morphology and cellular viability. Mutations in this gene cause Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, a complex malformation syndrome caused by the deletion of parts of the distal short arm of chromosome 4. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 8, 15 and 19. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009],	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
SLC25A12	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial aspartate and glutamate carrier. May have a function in the urea cycle	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
SLC25A13	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial aspartate and glutamate carrier. May have a function in the urea cycle	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
SMDT1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0466 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
HINT2	Histidine triad proteins, such as HINT2, are nucleotide hydrolases and transferases that act on the alpha-phosphate of ribonucleotides (Brenner, 2002 [PubMed 12119013]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
CCDC90B	PTM:Phosphorylated upon DNA damage, probably by ATM or ATRsimilarity:Belongs to the CCDC90 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
MCUR1	similarity:Belongs to the CCDC90 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
TMEM65	TMEM65 mutation severely affected mitochondrial content and respiration rate in dermal fibroblasts.	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
MCU	This gene encodes a calcium transporter that localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The encoded protein interacts with mitochondrial calcium uptake 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012],	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
LETM2	caution:Despite its name, it does not contain any EF-hand domainssimilarity:Contains 1 LETM1 domain	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
MICU2	caution:It is unsure if this protein binds calcium as none of the 4 EF-hand domains seem to contain a canonical calcium-binding sitesimilarity:Contains 4 EF-hand domains	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
MICU1	Induces T helper 1-mediated autoreactivity, which is accompanied by the release of IFNG	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
EFHD1	This gene encodes a member of the EF-hand super family of calcium binding proteins, which are involved in a variety of cellular processes including mitosis, synaptic transmission, and cytoskeletal rearrangement. The protein encoded by this gene is composed of an N-terminal disordered region, proline-rich elements, two EF-hands, and a C-terminal coiled-coil domain. This protein has been shown to associate with the mitochondrial inner membrane, and in HeLa cells, acts as a novel mitochondrial calcium ion sensor for mitochondrial flash activation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016],	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
TCHP	May act as a 'capping' or 'branching' protein for keratin filaments in the cell periphery. May regulate K8/K18 filament and desmosome organization mainly at the apical or peripheral regions of simple epithelial cells	Calcium Signaling & Transport	present in both datasets 
CDS1	Provides CDP-diacylglycerol an important precursor for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns), phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin. Overexpression may amplify cellular signaling responses from cytokines. May also play an important role in the signal transduction mechanism of retina and neural cells	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LCLAT1	 Possesses both lysophosphatidylinositol acyltransferase (LPIAT) and lysophosphatidylglycerol acyltransferase (LPGAT) activities. Recognizes both monolysocardiolipin and dilysocardiolipin as substrates with a preference for linoleoyl-CoA and oleoyl-CoA as acyl donors. Acts as a remodeling enzyme for cardiolipin, a major membrane polyglycerophospholipid. Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid (PA) with a relatively low activity. Required for establishment of the hematopoietic and endothelial lineages. 	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TAZ	This gene encodes a protein that is expressed at high levels in cardiac and skeletal muscle. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a number of clinical disorders including Barth syndrome, dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), hypertrophic DCM, endocardial fibroelastosis, and left ventricular noncompaction (LVNC). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. A long form and a short form of each of these isoforms is produced; the short form lacks a hydrophobic leader sequence and may exist as a cytoplasmic protein rather than being membrane-bound. Other alternatively spliced transcripts have been described but the full-length nature of all these transcripts is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CRLS1	Catalyzes the reversible phosphatidyl group transfer from one phosphatidylglycerol molecule to another to form cardiolipin (CL) (diphosphatidylglycerol) and glycerol	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
PGS1	Functions in the biosynthesis of the anionic phospholipids phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin (By similarity)	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
PTPMT1	Protein phosphatase that specifically mediates dephosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins, thereby playing an essential role in ATP production. Has probably a preference for proteins phosphorylated on Ser and/or Thr residues compared to proteins phosphorylated on Tyr residues. Probably involved in regulation of insulin secretion in pancreatic beta cells (By similarity)	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
ACSL5	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Utilizes a wide range of saturated fatty acids with a preference for C16-C18 unsaturated fatty acids (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ACSM2B	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ACSM4	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ECHS1	The protein encoded by this gene functions in the second step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. It catalyzes the hydration of 2-trans-enoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) intermediates to L-3-hydroxyacyl-CoAs. The gene product is a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. It localizes to the mitochondrial matrix. Transcript variants utilizing alternative transcription initiation sites have been described in the literature. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ECHDC3	sequence caution:Translated as Glnsimilarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
MECR	Catalyzes the reduction of trans-2-enoyl-CoA to acyl-CoA with chain length from C6 to C16 in an NADPH-dependent manner with preference to medium chain length substrate. May have a role in the mitochondrial synthesis of fatty acids	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
MCAT	Catalyzes the transfer of a malonyl moiety from malonyl- CoA to the free thiol group of the phosphopantetheine arm of the mitochondrial ACP protein (NDUFAB1). This suggests the existence of the biosynthesis of fatty acids in mitochondrias	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ECH1	This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The gene product shows high sequence similarity to enoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) hydratases of several species, particularly within a conserved domain characteristic of these proteins. The encoded protein, which contains a C-terminal peroxisomal targeting sequence, localizes to the peroxisome. The rat ortholog, which localizes to the matrix of both the peroxisome and mitochondria, can isomerize 3-trans,5-cis-dienoyl-CoA to 2-trans,4-trans-dienoyl-CoA, indicating that it is a delta3,5-delta2,4-dienoyl-CoA isomerase. This enzyme functions in the auxiliary step of the fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Expression of the rat gene is induced by peroxisome proliferators. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ECHDC2	similarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
CBR4	similarity:Belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
HSD17B8	In mice, the Ke6 protein is a 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase that can regulate the concentration of biologically active estrogens and androgens. It is preferentially an oxidative enzyme and inactivates estradiol, testosterone, and dihydrotestosterone. However, the enzyme has some reductive activity and can synthesize estradiol from estrone. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to Ke6 and is a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase superfamily. An alternatively spliced transcript of this gene has been detected, but the full-length nature of this variant has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
THEM4	According to PubMed:11598301, inhibits AKT1 phosphorylation and activity. According to PubMed:17615157, enhances AKT1 activity by favoring its phosphorylation and translocation to plasma membrane	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACSM5	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACSM1	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro). Functions as GTP-dependent lipoate- activating enzyme that generates the substrate for lipoyltransferase (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACSM3	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ECHDC1	similarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
OXSM	May play a role in the biosynthesis of lipoic acid as well as longer chain fatty acids required for optimal mitochondrial function	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACOT2	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Displays high levels of activity on medium- and long chain acyl CoAs	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACSL6	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Plays an important role in fatty acid metabolism in brain and the acyl-CoAs produced may be utilized exclusively for the synthesis of the brain lipid	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACSM2A	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACSL1	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses palmitoleate, oleate and linoleate	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACOT7	This gene encodes a member of the acyl coenzyme family. The encoded protein hydrolyzes the CoA thioester of palmitoyl-CoA and other long-chain fatty acids. Decreased expression of this gene may be associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms with different subcellular locations have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation	present in both datasets 
ACAT2	The product of this gene is an enzyme involved in lipid metabolism, and it encodes cytosolic acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase. This gene shows complementary overlapping with the 3-prime region of the TCP1 gene in both mouse and human. These genes are encoded on opposite strands of DNA, as well as in opposite transcriptional orientation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ACSBG2	Mediates activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Able to activate long-chain fatty acids. Also able to activate very long-chain fatty acids; however, the relevance of such activity is unclear in vivo. Has increased ability to activate oleic and linoleic acid. May play a role in spermatogenesis	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ACSL3	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses myristate, laurate, arachidonate and eicosapentaenoate as substrates (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HADHA	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain fatty acids. The mitochondrial membrane-bound heterocomplex is composed of four alpha and four beta subunits, with the alpha subunit catalyzing the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and enoyl-CoA hydratase activities. Mutations in this gene result in trifunctional protein deficiency or LCHAD deficiency. The genes of the alpha and beta subunits of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein are located adjacent to each other in the human genome in a head-to-head orientation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
CPT2	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transported to the mitochondrial inner membrane. Together with carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the encoded protein oxidizes long-chain fatty acids in the mitochondria. Defects in this gene are associated with mitochondrial long-chain fatty-acid (LCFA) oxidation disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACADS	This gene encodes a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. This enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Mutations in this gene have been associated with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency. Alternative splicing results in two variants which encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACADM	This enzyme is specific for acyl chain lengths of 4 to 16	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
HADH	Plays an essential role in the mitochondrial beta- oxidation of short chain fatty acids. Exerts it highest activity toward 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACADL	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, which is a family of mitochondrial flavoenzymes involved in fatty acid and branched chain amino-acid metabolism. This protein is one of the four enzymes that catalyze the initial step of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of straight-chain fatty acid. Defects in this gene are the cause of long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCAD) deficiency, leading to nonketotic hypoglycemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACADSB	Has greatest activity toward short branched chain acyl- CoA derivative such as (s)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, and 2-methylhexanoyl-CoA as well as toward short straight chain acyl-CoAs such as butyryl-CoA and hexanoyl-CoA. Can use valproyl- CoA as substrate and may play a role in controlling the metabolic flux of valproic acid in the development of toxicity of this agent	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACADVL	Active toward esters of long-chain and very long chain fatty acids such as palmitoyl-CoA, mysritoyl-CoA and stearoyl-CoA. Can accomodate substrate acyl chain lengths as long as 24 carbons, but shows little activity for substrates of less than 12 carbons	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
CRAT	Carnitine acetylase is specific for short chain fatty acids. Carnitine acetylase seems to affect the flux through the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. It may be involved as well in the transport of acetyl-CoA into mitochondria	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACAD8	Has very high activity toward isobutyryl-CoA. Is an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase that functions in valine catabolism. Plays a role in transcriptional coactivation within the ARC complex	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ALDH2	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. Two major liver isoforms of aldehyde dehydrogenase, cytosolic and mitochondrial, can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobilities, kinetic properties, and subcellular localizations. Most Caucasians have two major isozymes, while approximately 50% of Orientals have the cytosolic isozyme but not the mitochondrial isozyme. A remarkably higher frequency of acute alcohol intoxication among Orientals than among Caucasians could be related to the absence of a catalytically active form of the mitochondrial isozyme. The increased exposure to acetaldehyde in individuals with the catalytically inactive form may also confer greater susceptibility to many types of cancer. This gene encodes a mitochondrial isoform, which has a low Km for acetaldehydes, and is localized in mitochondrial matrix. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACAA2	The encoded protein catalyzes the last step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation spiral. Unlike most mitochondrial matrix proteins, it contains a non-cleavable amino-terminal targeting signal. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
GCDH	Catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of glutaryl-CoA to crotonyl-CoA and CO(2) in the degradative pathway of L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine, and L-tryptophan metabolism. It uses electron transfer flavoprotein as its electron acceptor. The short isoform is inactive	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
DECR1	Auxiliary enzyme of beta-oxidation. It participates in the metabolism of unsaturated fatty enoyl-CoA esters having double bonds in both even- and odd-numbered positions. Catalyzes the NADP-dependent reduction of 2,4-dienoyl-CoA to yield trans-3- enoyl-CoA	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACAD10	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes (ACADs), which participate in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids in mitochondria. The encoded enzyme contains a hydrolase domain at the N-terminal portion, a serine/threonine protein kinase catlytic domain in the central region, and a conserved ACAD domain at the C-terminus. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ECI2	This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The protein encoded is a key mitochondrial enzyme involved in beta-oxidation of unsaturated fatty acids. It catalyzes the transformation of 3-cis and 3-trans-enoyl-CoA esters arising during the stepwise degradation of cis-, mono-, and polyunsaturated fatty acids to the 2-trans-enoyl-CoA intermediates. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACAD9	Has a dehydrogenase activity on palmitoyl-CoA (C16:0) and stearoyl-CoA (C18:0). It is three times more active on palmitoyl-CoA then on stearoyl-CoA. Has little activity on octanoyl-CoA (C8:0), butyryl-CoA (C4:0) or isovaleryl-CoA (5:0)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
CPT1A	The mitochondrial oxidation of long-chain fatty acids is initiated by the sequential action of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (which is located in the outer membrane and is detergent-labile) and carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (which is located in the inner membrane and is detergent-stable), together with a carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase. CPT I is the key enzyme in the carnitine-dependent transport across the mitochondrial inner membrane and its deficiency results in a decreased rate of fatty acid beta-oxidation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ALDH1B1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenases family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. This gene does not contain introns in the coding sequence. The variation of this locus may affect the development of alcohol-related problems. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ECI1	Able to isomerize both 3-cis and 3-trans double bonds into the 2-trans form in a range of enoyl-CoA species	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACAD11	This gene encodes an acyl-CoA dehydrogenase enzyme with a preference for carbon chain lengths between 20 and 26. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between the upstream gene NPHP3 (nephronophthisis 3 (adolescent)) and this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
HADHB	This gene encodes the beta subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain fatty acids. The mitochondrial membrane-bound heterocomplex is composed of four alpha and four beta subunits, with the beta subunit catalyzing the 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase activity. The encoded protein can also bind RNA and decreases the stability of some mRNAs. The genes of the alpha and beta subunits of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein are located adjacent to each other in the human genome in a head-to-head orientation. Mutations in this gene result in trifunctional protein deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
CPT1B	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family, is the rate-controlling enzyme of the long-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway in muscle mitochondria. This enzyme is required for the net transport of long-chain fatty acyl-CoAs from the cytoplasm into the mitochondria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and read-through transcripts are expressed from the upstream locus that include exons from this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ALDH3A2	Aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This gene product catalyzes the oxidation of long-chain aliphatic aldehydes to fatty acid. Mutations in the gene cause Sjogren-Larsson syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACACB	ACC-beta may be involved in the provision of malonyl-CoA or in the regulation of fatty acid oxidation, rather than fatty acid biosynthesis. Carries out three functions: biotin carboxyl carrier protein, biotin carboxylase and carboxyltransferase	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
CPT1C	This gene encodes a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family. The encoded protein regulates the beta-oxidation and transport of long-chain fatty acids into mitochondria, and may play a role in the regulation of feeding behavior and whole-body energy homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple protein isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010],	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACSL4	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses arachidonate and eicosapentaenoate as substrates	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation	present in both datasets 
ACSM6	catalytic activity:ATP + an acid + CoA = AMP + diphosphate + an acyl-CoAcatalytic activity:GTP + lipoate = diphosphate + lipoyl-GMPcofactor:Magnesiumsimilarity:Belongs to the ATP-dependent AMP-binding enzyme familysubunit:Monomer	Fatty Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GLYATL2	Mitochondrial acyltransferase which transfers the acyl group to the N-terminus of glycine. Can conjugate a multitude of substrates to form a variety of N-acylglycines (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HDHD5	glycerophospholipid biosynthetic process	Fatty Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PNPLA4	Lipid hydrolase	Fatty Acid Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PCCB	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) enzyme, which is involved in the catabolism of propionyl-CoA. PCC is a mitochondrial enzyme that probably acts as a dodecamer of six alpha subunits and six beta subunits. This gene encodes the beta subunit of PCC. Defects in this gene are a cause of propionic acidemia type II (PA-2). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
BDH1	This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase gene family. The encoded protein forms a homotetrameric lipid-requiring enzyme of the mitochondrial membrane and has a specific requirement for phosphatidylcholine for optimal enzymatic activity. The encoded protein catalyzes the interconversion of acetoacetate and (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate, the two major ketone bodies produced during fatty acid catabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ACSF3	Acyl-CoA synthases catalyze the initial reaction in fatty acid metabolism, by forming a thioester with CoA. May have some preference toward very-long-chain substrates	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PNPLA8	Calcium-independent phospholipase A2, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the sn-2 position of glycerophospholipids, PtdSer and to a lower extent PtdCho. Cleaves membrane phospholipids	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MLYCD	The product of this gene catalyzes the breakdown of malonyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide. Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acid biosynthesis, and also inhibits the transport of fatty acyl CoAs into mitochondria. Consequently, the encoded protein acts to increase the rate of fatty acid oxidation. It is found in mitochondria, peroxisomes, and the cytoplasm. Mutations in this gene result in malonyl-CoA decarboyxlase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ACSF2	Acyl-CoA synthases catalyze the initial reaction in fatty acid metabolism, by forming a thioester with CoA. Has some preference toward medium-chain substrates. Plays a role in adipodyte differentiation	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
LYPLA1	Hydrolyzes fatty acids from S-acylated cysteine residues in proteins such as trimeric G alpha proteins or HRAS. Also has low lysophospholipase activity	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ACOT9	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Active on long chain acyl-CoAs	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
LYPLAL1	similarity:Belongs to the AB hydrolase 2 family	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
TMLHE	This gene encodes the protein trimethyllysine dioxygenase which is the first enzyme in the carnitine biosynthesis pathway. Carnitine play an essential role in the transport of activated fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein converts trimethyllysine into hydroxytrimethyllysine. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome X. 	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AGK	Lipid kinase that can phosphorylate both monoacylglycerol and diacylglycerol to form lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and phosphatidic acid (PA), respectively. Does not phosphorylate sphingosine. Overexpression increases the formation and secretion of LPA, resulting in transactivation of EGFR and activation of the downstream MAPK signaling pathway, leading to increased cell growth	Fatty Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CIAO1	function:Seems to specifically modulate the transactivation activity of WT1miscellaneous:'Ciao' means 'bridge' in Chinesesimilarity:Belongs to the WD repeat CIA1 familysimilarity:Contains 7 WD repeatssubunit:Interacts with WT1	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CIAO2A	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0195 family; iron-sulfur cluster assembly, protein maturation by [4Fe-4S] cluster transfer	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CIAO2B	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0195 family; iron-sulfur cluster assembly, protein maturation by [4Fe-4S] cluster transfer	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CIAPIN1	Probably required during hematopoiesis to mediate antiapoptotic effects of various cytokines. Confers resistance to apoptosis when overexpressed (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FDX2	This gene encodes a member of the ferredoxin family. The encoded protein contains a 2Fe-2S ferredoxin-type domain and is essential for heme A and Fe/S protein biosynthesis. Mutation in FDX1L gene is associated with mitochondrial muscle myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MMS19	function:May play a role in nucleotide excision repair (NER) and RNA polymerase II (POL II) transcription by interacting with ERCC2/XPD and ERCC3/XPB helicases, both subunits of NER-transcription factor TFIIH. May also function as a transcriptional coactivator of estrogen receptor (ER). May be involved in regulation of ER activity by bridging TFIIH with ER or may facilitate TFIIH-mediated phosphorylation of ER in specific promoters and cell typessimilarity:Belongs to the MET18/MMS19 familysimilarity:Contains 7 HEAT repeatssubunit:Interacts with ERCC2/XPD, ERCC3/XPB and NCOA3/RAC3tissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed with higher expression in testis	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NARF	Several proteins have been found to be prenylated and methylated at their carboxyl-terminal ends. Prenylation was initially believed to be important only for membrane attachment. However, another role for prenylation appears to be its importance in protein-protein interactions. The only nuclear proteins known to be prenylated in mammalian cells are prelamin A- and B-type lamins. Prelamin A is farnesylated and carboxymethylated on the cysteine residue of a carboxyl-terminal CaaX motif. This post-translationally modified cysteine residue is removed from prelamin A when it is endoproteolytically processed into mature lamin A. The protein encoded by this gene binds to the prenylated prelamin A carboxyl-terminal tail domain. It may be a component of a prelamin A endoprotease complex. The encoded protein is located in the nucleus, where it partially colocalizes with the nuclear lamina. It shares limited sequence similarity with iron-only bacterial hydrogenases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene, including one with a novel exon that is generated by RNA editing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NUBP1	Implicated in the regulation of centrosome duplication (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NUBP2	May contribute to formation of bipolar spindles (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ISCA2	Involved in the assembly of mitochondrial iron-sulfur proteins. Probably involved in the binding of an intermediate of Fe/S cluster assembly (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
ISCA1	Involved in the assembly of mitochondrial iron-sulfur proteins. Probably involved in the binding of an intermediate of Fe/S cluster assembly	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
LYRM4	May be involved in mitochondrial iron-sulfur protein biosynthesis	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
ISCU	Involved in the assembly or repair of the [Fe-S] clusters present in iron-sulfur proteins. Binds iron	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
IBA57	The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the mitochondrion and is part of the iron-sulfur cluster assembly pathway. The encoded protein functions late in the biosynthesis of mitochondrial 4Fe-4S proteins. Defects in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia-74 and with multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome-3. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The smaller isoform is not likely to be localized to the mitochondrion since it lacks the amino-terminal transit peptide. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015],	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
NFS1	Catalyzes the removal of elemental sulfur from cysteine to produce alanine. It supplies the inorganic sulfur for iron- sulfur (Fe-S) clusters. May be involved in the biosynthesis of molybdenum cofactor	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
FDX1	Participates in the synthesis of thyroid hormones. Transfers electrons from adrenodoxin reductase to the cholesterol side chain cleavage cytochrome P450	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
NFU1	Iron-sulfur cluster scaffold protein which can assemble [4Fe-2S] clusters and deliver them to target proteins	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
FXN	Probably involved in iron homeostasis. Anti-apoptotic protein which prevents mitochondrial damage and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
FDXR	Serves as the first electron transfer protein in all the mitochondrial P450 systems. Including cholesterol side chain cleavage in all steroidogenic tissues, steroid 11-beta hydroxylation in the adrenal cortex, 25-OH-vitamin D3-24 hydroxylation in the kidney, and sterol C-27 hydroxylation in the liver	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
HSCB	This gene encodes a DnaJ-type co-chaperone and member of the heat shock cognate B (HscB) family of proteins. The encoded protein plays a role in the synthesis of iron-sulfur clusters, protein cofactors that are involved in the redox reactions of mitochondrial electron transport and other processes. Cells in which this gene is knocked down exhibit reduced activity of iron-sulfur cluster-dependent enzymes including succinate dehydrogenase and aconitase. The encoded protein may stimulate the ATPase activity of the mitochondrial stress-70 protein. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015],	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
GLRX5	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein, which is evolutionarily conserved. It is involved in the biogenesis of iron-sulfur clusters, which are required for normal iron homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive pyridoxine-refractory sideroblastic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
BOLA1	Acts as a mitochondrial iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster assembly factor that facilitates (Fe-S) cluster insertion into a subset of mitochondrial proteins (By similarity). Probably acts together with the monothiol glutaredoxin GLRX5 (PubMed:27532772). May protect cells against oxidative stress (PubMed:22746225).	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
SLC25A28	Mitochondrial iron transporter that mediates iron uptake. Probably required for heme synthesis of hemoproteins and Fe-S cluster assembly in non-erythroid cells. The iron delivered into the mitochondria, presumably as Fe(2+), is then probably delivered to ferrochelatase to catalyze Fe(2+) incorporation into protoprophyrin IX to make heme (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
SLC25A37	Mitochondrial iron transporter that specifically mediates iron uptake in developing erythroid cells, thereby playing an essential role in heme biosynthesis. The iron delivered into the mitochondria, presumably as Fe(2+), is then probably delivered to ferrochelatase to catalyze Fe(2+) incorporation into protoprophyrin IX to make heme (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
BOLA3	This gene encodes a protein that plays an essential role in the production of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters for the normal maturation of lipoate-containing 2-oxoacid dehydrogenases, and for the assembly of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes. Mutation in this gene has been associated with multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome-2. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with distinct subcellular localization have been reported for this gene (PMID:21944046). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011],	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
DHFR 	Dihydrofolate reductase converts dihydrofolate into tetrahydrofolate, a methyl group shuttle required for the de novo synthesis of purines, thymidylic acid, and certain amino acids. While the functional dihydrofolate reductase gene has been mapped to chromosome 5, multiple intronless processed pseudogenes or dihydrofolate reductase-like genes have been identified on separate chromosomes. Dihydrofolate reductase deficiency has been linked to megaloblastic anemia. 	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DHFR2	similarity:Belongs to the dihydrofolate reductase familysimilarity:Contains 1 DHFR (dihydrofolate reductase) domain	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTHFD1L	May provide the missing metabolic reaction required to link the mitochondria and the cytoplasm in the mammalian model of one-carbon folate metabolism in embryonic an transformed cells complementing thus the enzymatic activities of MTHFD2 (By similarity)	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
SHMT2	Interconversion of serine and glycine (By similarity)Interconversion of serine and glycine	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MTHFD2	This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial bifunctional enzyme with methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase and methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase activities. The enzyme functions as a homodimer and is unique in its absolute requirement for magnesium and inorganic phosphate. Formation of the enzyme-magnesium complex allows binding of NAD. Alternative splicing results in two different transcripts, one protein-coding and the other not protein-coding. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009],	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MTHFD2L	catalytic activity:5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + H(2)O = 10-formyltetrahydrofolatecatalytic activity:5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate + NAD(+) = 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + NADHcofactor:Magnesiumpathway:One-carbon metabolism; tetrahydrofolate pathwaysequence caution:Contaminating sequence. Sequence of unknown origin in the N-terminal partsimilarity:Belongs to the tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/cyclohydrolase family	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDH1L2	This gene encodes a member of both the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily and the formyl transferase superfamily. This member is the mitochondrial form of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (FDH), which converts 10-formyltetrahydrofolate to tetrahydrofolate and CO2 in an NADP(+)-dependent reaction, and plays an essential role in the distribution of one-carbon groups between the cytosolic and mitochondrial compartments of the cell. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010],	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDH1L1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP+), and water to tetrahydrofolate, NADPH, and carbon dioxide. The encoded protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Loss of function or expression of this gene is associated with decreased apoptosis, increased cell motility, and cancer progression. There is an antisense transcript that overlaps on the opposite strand with this gene locus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012],	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
SLC25A32	Transports folate across the inner membranes of mitochondria	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MTHFS	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 5-formyltetrahydrofolate to 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate, a precursor of reduced folates involved in 1-carbon metabolism. An increased activity of the encoded protein can result in an increased folate turnover rate and folate depletion. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011],	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
FPGS	Conversion of folates to polyglutamate derivatives. This allows tissues to concentrate folate at higher levels than in plasma	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PTS	Involved in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin, an essential cofactor of aromatic amino acid hydroxylases. Catalyzes the transformation of 7,8-dihydroneopterin triphosphate into 6- pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MTHFD1	This gene encodes a protein that possesses three distinct enzymatic activities, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase and 10-formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase. Each of these activities catalyzes one of three sequential reactions in the interconversion of 1-carbon derivatives of tetrahydrofolate, which are substrates for methionine, thymidylate, and de novo purine syntheses. The trifunctional enzymatic activities are conferred by two major domains, an aminoterminal portion containing the dehydrogenase and cyclohydrolase activities and a larger synthetase domain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Folate & Pterin Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AKR1B1	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member catalyzes the reduction of a number of aldehydes, including the aldehyde form of glucose, and is thereby implicated in the development of diabetic complications by catalyzing the reduction of glucose to sorbitol. Multiple pseudogenes have been identified for this gene. The nomenclature system used by the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee to define human aldo-keto reductase family members is known to differ from that used by the Mouse Genome Informatics database. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009],	Fructose Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ALDH1A1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the next enzyme after alcohol dehydrogenase in the major pathway of alcohol metabolism. There are two major aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes in the liver, cytosolic and mitochondrial, which are encoded by distinct genes, and can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobility, kinetic properties, and subcellular localization. This gene encodes the cytosolic isozyme. Studies in mice show that through its role in retinol metabolism, this gene may also be involved in the regulation of the metabolic responses to high-fat diet. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Fructose Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ALDOB	Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) is a tetrameric glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Vertebrates have 3 aldolase isozymes which are distinguished by their electrophoretic and catalytic properties. Differences indicate that aldolases A, B, and C are distinct proteins, the products of a family of related &apos;housekeeping&apos; genes exhibiting developmentally regulated expression of the different isozymes. The developing embryo produces aldolase A, which is produced in even greater amounts in adult muscle where it can be as much as 5% of total cellular protein. In adult liver, kidney and intestine, aldolase A expression is repressed and aldolase B is produced. In brain and other nervous tissue, aldolase A and C are expressed about equally. There is a high degree of homology between aldolase A and C. Defects in ALDOB cause hereditary fructose intolerance. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008],	Fructose Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
KHK	This gene encodes ketohexokinase that catalyzes conversion of fructose to fructose-1-phosphate. The product of this gene is the first enzyme with a specialized pathway that catabolizes dietary fructose. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Fructose Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SORD	Sorbitol dehydrogenase (SORD; EC 1.1.1.14) catalyzes the interconversion of polyols and their corresponding ketoses, and together with aldose reductase (ALDR1; MIM 103880), makes up the sorbitol pathway that is believed to play an important role in the development of diabetic complications (summarized by Carr and Markham, 1995 [PubMed 8535074]). The first reaction of the pathway (also called the polyol pathway) is the reduction of glucose to sorbitol by ALDR1 with NADPH as the cofactor. SORD then oxidizes the sorbitol to fructose using NAD(+) cofactor.[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010],	Fructose Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TKFC	Catalyzes both the phosphorylation of dihydroxyacetone and the splitting of ribonucleoside diphosphate-X compounds among which FAD is the best substrate	Fructose Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GLYCTK	This locus encodes a member of the glycerate kinase type-2 family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the phosphorylation of (R)-glycerate and may be involved in serine degradation and fructose metabolism. Decreased activity of the encoded enzyme may be associated with the disease D-glyceric aciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009],	Fructose Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDOA	This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase protein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Three aldolase isozymes (A, B, and C), encoded by three different genes, are differentially expressed during development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Glycogen Storage Disease XII, an autosomal recessive disorder associated with hemolytic anemia. Disruption of this gene also plays a role in the progression of multiple types of cancers. 	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ALDOC	This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-biphosphate aldolase gene family. Expressed specifically in the hippocampus and Purkinje cells of the brain, the encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible aldol cleavage of fructose-1,6-biphosphate and fructose 1-phosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate and either glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate or glyceraldehyde, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ENO1	This gene encodes alpha-enolase, one of three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. Each isoenzyme is a homodimer composed of 2 alpha, 2 gamma, or 2 beta subunits, and functions as a glycolytic enzyme. Alpha-enolase in addition, functions as a structural lens protein (tau-crystallin) in the monomeric form. Alternative splicing of this gene results in a shorter isoform that has been shown to bind to the c-myc promoter and function as a tumor suppressor. Several pseudogenes have been identified, including one on the long arm of chromosome 1. Alpha-enolase has also been identified as an autoantigen in Hashimoto encephalopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ENO2	This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. This isoenzyme, a homodimer, is found in mature neurons and cells of neuronal origin. A switch from alpha enolase to gamma enolase occurs in neural tissue during development in rats and primates. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ENO3	This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. This isoenzyme is found in skeletal muscle cells in the adult where it may play a role in muscle development and regeneration. A switch from alpha enolase to beta enolase occurs in muscle tissue during development in rodents. Mutations in this gene have be associated glycogen storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FBP1	Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1, a gluconeogenesis regulatory enzyme, catalyzes the hydrolysis of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to fructose 6-phosphate and inorganic phosphate. Fructose-1,6-diphosphatase deficiency is associated with hypoglycemia and metabolic acidosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FBP2	This gene encodes a gluconeogenesis regulatory enzyme which catalyzes the hydrolysis of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to fructose 6-phosphate and inorganic phosphate. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
G6PC	Hydrolyzes glucose-6-phosphate to glucose in the endoplasmic reticulum. Forms with the glucose-6-phosphate transporter (SLC37A4/G6PT) the complex responsible for glucose production through glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. Hence, it is the key enzyme in homeostatic regulation of blood glucose levels	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GAPDHS	May play an important role in regulating the switch between different pathways for energy production during spermiogenesis and in the spermatozoon. Required for sperm motility and male fertility (By similarity)	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GCK	Catalyzes the initial step in utilization of glucose by the beta-cell and liver at physiological glucose concentration. Glucokinase has a high Km for glucose, and so it is effective only when glucose is abundant. The role of GCK is to provide G6P for the synthesis of glycogen. Pancreatic glucokinase plays an important role in modulating insulin secretion. Hepatic glucokinase helps to facilitate the uptake and conversion of glucose by acting as an insulin-sensitive determinant of hepatic glucose usage	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HK3	Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes hexokinase 3. Similar to hexokinases 1 and 2, this allosteric enzyme is inhibited by its product glucose-6-phosphate. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HKDC1	This gene encodes a member of the hexokinase protein family. The encoded protein is involved in glucose metabolism, and reduced expression may be associated with gestational diabetes mellitus. High expression of this gene may also be associated with poor prognosis in hepatocarcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LDHA	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis. The protein is found predominantly in muscle tissue and belongs to the lactate dehydrogenase family. Mutations in this gene have been linked to exertional myoglobinuria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LDHC	 Lactate dehydrogenase C catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis.  LDHC is testis-specific and belongs to the lactate dehydrogenase family.  Two transcript variants have been detected which differ in the 5&apos; untranslated region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PCK1	Catalyzes the conversion of oxaloacetate (OAA) to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), the rate-limiting step in the metabolic pathway that produces glucose from lactate and other precursors derived from the citric acid cycle	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PFKL	This gene encodes the liver (L) subunit of an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of D-fructose 6-phosphate to D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, which is a key step in glucose metabolism (glycolysis). This enzyme is a tetramer that may be composed of different subunits encoded by distinct genes in different tissues. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PFKM	Three phosphofructokinase isozymes exist in humans: muscle, liver and platelet. These isozymes function as subunits of the mammalian tetramer phosphofructokinase, which catalyzes the phosphorylation of fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate. Tetramer composition varies depending on tissue type. This gene encodes the muscle-type isozyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glycogen storage disease type VII, also known as Tarui disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PFKP	This gene encodes a member of the phosphofructokinase A protein family. The encoded enzyme is the platelet-specific isoform of phosphofructokinase and plays a key role in glycolysis regulation. This gene may play a role in metabolic reprogramming in some cancers, including clear cell renal cell carcinomas, and cancer of the bladder, breast, and lung. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGAM1	Interconversion of 3- and 2-phosphoglycerate with 2,3- bisphosphoglycerate as the primer of the reaction. Can also catalyze the reaction of EC 5.4.2.4 (synthase) and EC 3.1.3.13 (phosphatase), but with a reduced activity	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGAM2	Interconversion of 3- and 2-phosphoglycerate with 2,3- bisphosphoglycerate as the primer of the reaction. Can also catalyze the reaction of EC 5.4.2.4 (synthase) and EC 3.1.3.13 (phosphatase), but with a reduced activity	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGAM4	This intronless gene appears to have arisen from a retrotransposition event, yet it is thought to be an expressed, protein-coding gene. The encoded protein is a member of the phosphoglycerate mutase family, a set of enzymes that catalyze the transfer of a phosphate group from 3-phosphoglycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGK1	In addition to its role as a glycolytic enzyme, it seems that PGK-1 acts as a polymerase alpha cofactor protein (primer recognition protein)	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGK2	This gene is intronless, arose via retrotransposition of the phosphoglycerate kinase 1 gene, and is expressed specifically in the testis. Initially assumed to be a pseudogene, the encoded protein is actually a functional phosphoglycerate kinase that catalyzes the reversible conversion of 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate, during the Embden-Meyerhof-Parnas pathway of glycolysis, in the later stages of spermatogenesis.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PKM	This gene encodes a protein involved in glycolysis. The encoded protein is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphoryl group from phosphoenolpyruvate to ADP, generating ATP and pyruvate. This protein has been shown to interact with thyroid hormone and may mediate cellular metabolic effects induced by thyroid hormones. This protein has been found to bind Opa protein, a bacterial outer membrane protein involved in gonococcal adherence to and invasion of human cells, suggesting a role of this protein in bacterial pathogenesis. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding a few distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC2A1	This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brain barrier. The encoded protein is found primarily in the cell membrane and on the cell surface, where it can also function as a receptor for human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV) I and II. Mutations in this gene have been found in a family with paroxysmal exertion-induced dyskinesia. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC2A2	This gene encodes an integral plasma membrane glycoprotein of the liver, islet beta cells, intestine, and kidney epithelium. The encoded protein mediates facilitated bidirectional glucose transport. Because of its low affinity for glucose, it has been suggested as a glucose sensor. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to diseases, including Fanconi-Bickel syndrome and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC2A3	function:Facilitative glucose transporter. Probably a neuronal glucose transportersimilarity:Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Sugar transporter (TC 2.A.1.1) family. Glucose transporter subfamilytissue specificity:Highly expressed in brain. Expressed in many tissues	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC2A4	This gene is a member of the solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter) family and encodes a protein that functions as an insulin-regulated facilitative glucose transporter. In the absence of insulin, this integral membrane protein is sequestered within the cells of muscle and adipose tissue. Within minutes of insulin stimulation, the protein moves to the cell surface and begins to transport glucose across the cell membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC2A5	The protein encoded by this gene is a fructose transporter responsible for fructose uptake by the small intestine. The encoded protein also is necessary for the increase in blood pressure due to high dietary fructose consumption. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2016],	Glycolysis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PC	Pyruvate carboxylase catalyzes a 2-step reaction, involving the ATP-dependent carboxylation of the covalently attached biotin in the first step and the transfer of the carboxyl group to pyruvate in the second. Catalyzes in a tissue specific manner, the initial reactions of glucose (liver, kidney) and lipid (adipose tissue, liver, brain) synthesis from pyruvate	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
HK2	Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes hexokinase 2, the predominant form found in skeletal muscle. It localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Expression of this gene is insulin-responsive, and studies in rat suggest that it is involved in the increased rate of glycolysis seen in rapidly growing cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009],	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
GPI	Besides it's role as a glycolytic enzyme, mammalian GPI can function as a tumor-secreted cytokine and an angiogenic factor (AMF) that stimulates endothelial cell motility. GPI is also a neurotrophic factor (Neuroleukin) for spinal and sensory neurons	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
LDHAL6B	catalytic activity:(S)-lactate + NAD(+) = pyruvate + NADHcaution:It is uncertain whether Met-1 or Met-50 is the initiatordevelopmental stage:Higher expression level in adult testis as compared to 6-week-old fetal testispathway:Fermentation; pyruvate fermentation to lactate; (S)-lactate from pyruvate: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamily. LDH familytissue specificity:Testis specific	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
HK1	Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes a ubiquitous form of hexokinase which localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants which encode different isoforms, some of which are tissue-specific. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016],	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
TPI1	This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, which catalyzes the isomerization of glyceraldehydes 3-phosphate (G3P) and dihydroxy-acetone phosphate (DHAP) in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with triosephosphate isomerase deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 4, 6 and 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009],	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
GAPDH	Independent of its glycolytic activity it is also involved in membrane trafficking in the early secretory pathway	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
LDHB	This gene encodes the B subunit of lactate dehydrogenase enzyme, which catalyzes the interconversion of pyruvate and lactate with concomitant interconversion of NADH and NAD+ in a post-glycolysis process. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. Recent studies have shown that a C-terminally extended isoform is produced by use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon via a stop codon readthrough mechanism, and that this isoform is localized in the peroxisomes. Mutations in this gene are associated with lactate dehydrogenase B deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes X, 5 and 13. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016],	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
PKLR	The protein encoded by this gene is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transphosphorylation of phohsphoenolpyruvate into pyruvate and ATP, which is the rate-limiting step of glycolysis. Defects in this enzyme, due to gene mutations or genetic variations, are the common cause of chronic hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA or HNSHA). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Glycolysis	present in both datasets 
UROD	Catalyzes the decarboxylation of four acetate groups of uroporphyrinogen-III to yield coproporphyrinogen-III	Heme Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
UROS	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth step of porphyrin biosynthesis in the heme biosynthetic pathway. Defects in this gene cause congenital erythropoietic porphyria (Gunther&apos;s disease). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Heme Biosynthesis	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FECH	Catalyzes the ferrous insertion into protoporphyrin IX (By similarity)Catalyzes the ferrous insertion into protoporphyrin IX	Heme Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
ALAS1	Description: catalyzes the formation of 5-aminolevulinic acid from succinyl CoA and glycine Pathway: porphyrin biosynthesis,	Heme Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
ALAS2	Description: catalyzes the formation of 5-aminolevulinic acid from succinyl CoA and glycine Pathway: porphyrin biosynthesis,	Heme Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
PPOX	Catalyzes the 6-electron oxidation of protoporphyrinogen-IX to form protoporphyrin-IX	Heme Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
CPOX	The protein encoded by this gene is the sixth enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway. The encoded enzyme is soluble and found in the intermembrane space of mitochondria. This enzyme catalyzes the stepwise oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX, a precursor of heme. Defects in this gene are a cause of hereditary coproporphyria (HCP).[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009],	Heme Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
HMBS	Tetrapolymerization of the monopyrrole PBG into the hydroxymethylbilane pre-uroporphyrinogen in several discrete steps	Heme Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
FTMT	catalytic activity:4 Fe(2+) + 4 H(+) + O(2) = 4 Fe(3+) + 2 H(2)Ofunction:Stores iron in a soluble, non-toxic, readily available form. Important for iron homeostasis. Has ferroxidase activity. Iron is taken up in the ferrous form and deposited as ferric hydroxides after oxidationonline information:Ferritin entry,similarity:Belongs to the ferritin familysimilarity:Contains 1 ferritin-like diiron domainsubunit:Homo-oligomer of 24 subunits. The functional molecule is roughly spherical and contains a central cavity into which the polymeric mineral iron core is depositedtissue specificity:Detected in testis and erythroleukemia. Expression is very low or not detectable in brain, colon, heart, kidney, liver, lung, muscle, placental, spleen and small intestine	Heme Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
MTX3	Could function in transport of proteins into the mitochondrion (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TIMM23B	protein import into mitochondrial matrix	Import & Sorting	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TIMM29	protein import into mitochondrial matrix	Import & Sorting	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TOMM20L	similarity:Belongs to the Tom20 family	Import & Sorting	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TOMM70	Receptor that accelerates the import of all mitochondrial precursor proteins (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PMPCB	This gene is a member of the peptidase M16 family and encodes a protein with a zinc-binding motif. This protein is located in the mitochondrial matrix and catalyzes the cleavage of the leader peptides of precursor proteins newly imported into the mitochondria, though it only functions as part of a heterodimeric complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
GRPEL1	function:Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. Seems to control the nucleotide-dependent binding of mitochondrial HSP70 to substrate proteinssimilarity:Belongs to the grpE familysubunit:Probable component of the PAM complex at least composed of a mitochondrial HSP70 protein, GRPEL1 or GRPEL2, TIMM44, TIMM16/MAGMAS and TIMM14/DNAJC19 (By similarity). Binds to HSP70, HSC70 and HSJ1B	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
PMPCA	The protein encoded by this gene is found in the mitochondrion, where it represents the alpha subunit of a proteolytic heterodimer. This heterodimer is responsible for cleaving the transit peptide from nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins. Defects in this gene are a cause of spinocerebellar ataxia, autosomal recessive 2. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016],	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM10	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. May also be required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM9	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. May also be required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
SAMM50	May be required for the assembly pathway of mitochondrial outer membrane proteins (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
HSPA9	This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 gene family. The encoded protein is primarily localized to the mitochondria but is also found in the endoplasmic reticulum, plasma membrane and cytoplasmic vesicles. This protein is a heat-shock cognate protein. This protein plays a role in cell proliferation, stress response and maintenance of the mitochondria. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 2.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM13	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space. The TIMM8-TIMM13 complex mediates the import of proteins such as TIMM23, SLC25A12/ARALAR1 and SLC25A13/ARALAR2, while the predominant TIMM9-TIMM10 70 kDa complex mediates the import of much more proteins	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM44	Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. Recruits mitochondrial HSP70 to drive protein translocation into the matrix using ATP as an energy source	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM8B	Probable mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
CMC2	similarity:Belongs to the CMC1 family	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
MTX2	Involved in transport of proteins into the mitochondrion	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM50	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane. Has some phosphatase activity in vitro; however such activity may not be relevant in vivo. Isoform 2 may participate in the release of snRNPs and SMN from the Cajal body	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM7	Required for assembly and stability of the TOM complex	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM40L	Potential channel-forming protein implicated in import of protein precursors into mitochondria (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
MIPEP	Cleaves proteins, imported into the mitochondrion, to their mature size	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
MTX1	Involved in transport of proteins into the mitochondrion. Essential for embryonic development (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM17A	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
PPIF	PPIases accelerate the folding of proteins. It catalyzes the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM22	Essential core component of the TIM22 complex, a complex that mediates the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. In the TIM22 complex, it constitutes the voltage-activated and signal-gated channel. Forms a twin-pore translocase that uses the membrane potential as external driving force in 2 voltage-dependent steps (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM22	Central receptor component of the translocase of the outer membrane of mitochondria (TOM complex) responsible for the recognition and translocation of cytosolically synthesized mitochondrial preproteins. Together with the peripheral receptor TOM20 functions as the transit peptide receptor and facilitates the movement of preproteins into the translocation pore	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM21	May participate in the translocation of transit peptide- containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM40	Channel-forming protein essential for import of protein precursors into mitochondria (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM17B	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TAMM41	May be involved in the translocation of transit peptide- containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM23	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
DNLZ	similarity:Contains 1 DNL-type zinc finger	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
CHCHD4	Required for the import and folding of small cysteine- containing proteins (small Tim) in the mitochondrial intermembrane space (IMS). Probably acts by forming a redox cycle with GFER/ERV1 that involves a disulfide relay system. Precursor proteins to be imported into the IMS are translocated in their reduced form into the mitochondria. The oxidized form of MIA40 forms a transient intermolecular disulfide bridge with the reduced precursor protein, resulting in oxidation of the precursor protein that now contains an intramolecular disulfide bond and is able to undergo folding in the IMS (Probable)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM8A	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space. The TIMM8-TIMM13 complex mediates the import of proteins such as TIMM23, SLC25A12/ARALAR1 and SLC25A13/ARALAR2, while the predominant TIMM9-TIMM10 70 kDa complex mediates the import of much more proteins. Probably necessary for normal neurologic development	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
HSPE1	Eukaryotic CPN10 homolog which is essential for mitochondrial protein biogenesis, together with CPN60. Binds to CPN60 in the presence of Mg-ATP and suppresses the ATPase activity of the latter	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMM10B	Component of the TIM22 complex, a complex that mediates the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. The TIM22 complex forms a twin- pore translocase that uses the membrane potential as external driving force. In the TIM22 complex, it may act as a docking point for the soluble 70 kDa complex that guides the target proteins in transit through the aqueous mitochondrial intermembrane space	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
DNAJC15	miscellaneous:Absent or down-regulated in many advanced cases of ovarian adenocarcinoma, due to hypermethylation and allelic loss. Loss expression correlates with increased resistance to antineoplastic drugs, such as cisplatinsimilarity:Contains 1 J domaintissue specificity:Ubiquitous	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
GRPEL2	Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
IMMP2L	Catalyzes the removal of transit peptides required for the targeting of proteins from the mitochondrial matrix, across the inner membrane, into the inter-membrane space. Known to process the nuclear encoded protein DIABLO	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
YME1L1	Putative ATP-dependent protease which plays a role in mitochondrial protein metabolism	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
IMMP1L	Catalyzes the removal of transit peptides required for the targeting of proteins from the mitochondrial matrix, across the inner membrane, into the inter-membrane space. Known to process the nuclear encoded protein DIABLO	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM6	similarity:Belongs to the Tom6 familysubunit:Forms part of the preprotein translocase complex of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM complex) which consists of at least 7 different proteins (TOMM5, TOMM6, TOMM7, TOMM20, TOMM22, TOMM40 and TOMM70)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
CHCHD5	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM5	similarity:Belongs to the Tom5 familysubunit:Forms part of the preprotein translocase complex of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM complex) which consists of at least 7 different proteins (TOMM5, TOMM6, TOMM7, TOMM20, TOMM22, TOMM40 and TOMM70)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
PAM16	Probable component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. May be required to regulate the ATP- dependent activity (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TIMMDC1	tissue specificity:Generalized expression enhanced in heart and skeletal muscle	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
METAP1D	The N-terminal methionine excision pathway is an essential process in which the N-terminal methionine is removed from many proteins, thus facilitating subsequent protein modification. In mitochondria, enzymes that catalyze this reaction are celled methionine aminopeptidases (MetAps, or MAPs; EC 3.4.11.18) (Serero et al 2003 [PubMed 14532271]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
DNAJC19	Probable component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. May act as a co-chaperone that stimulate the ATP-dependent activity (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
CMC4	This gene was identified by involvement in some t(X;14) translocations associated with mature T-cell proliferations. This region has a complex gene structure, with a common promoter and 5&apos; exon spliced to two different sets of 3&apos; exons that encode two different proteins. This gene represents the downstream 8 kDa protein that localizes to mitochondria.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009],	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM20	Central component of the receptor complex responsible for the recognition and translocation of cytosolically synthesized mitochondrial preproteins. Together with TOM22 functions as the transit peptide receptor at the surface of the mitochondrion outer membrane and facilitates the movement of preproteins into the TOM40 translocation pore (By similarity)	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
TOMM34	Plays a role in the import of cytosolically synthesized preproteins into mitochondria. Binds the mature portion of precursor proteins. Interacts with cellular components, and possesses weak ATPase activity. May be a chaperone-like protein that helps to keep newly synthesized precursors in an unfolded import compatible state	Import & Sorting	present in both datasets 
LIAS	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the biotin and lipoic acid synthetases family. It localizes in mitochondrion and plays an important role in alpha-(+)-lipoic acid synthesis. It may also function in the sulfur insertion chemistry in lipoate biosynthesis. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Lipoic Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
LIPT2	Catalyzes the transfer of endogenously produced octanoic acid from octanoyl-acyl-carrier-protein onto the lipoyl domains of lipoate-dependent enzymes. Lipoyl-ACP can also act as a substrate although octanoyl-ACP is likely to be the physiological substrate (By similarity)	Lipoic Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
LIPT1	Catalyzes the transfer of the lipoyl group from lipoyl- AMP to the specific lysine residue of lipoyl domains of lipoate- dependent enzymes (By similarity)	Lipoic Acid Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AKR1B15	enzyme regulation:Inhibited by tolrestatfunction:Acts as all-trans-retinaldehyde reductase. Can efficiently reduce aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes, and is less active on hexoses (in vitro). May be responsible for detoxification of reactive aldehydes in the digested food before the nutrients are passed on to other organssimilarity:Belongs to the aldo/keto reductase familytissue specificity:Found in many tissues. Highly expressed in small intestine, colon and adrenal gland	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ASAH2B	Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid at an optimal pH of 6.5-8.5. Acts as a key regulator of sphingolipid signaling metabolites by generating sphingosine at the cell surface. Acts as a repressor of apoptosis both by reducing C16-ceramide, thereby preventing ceramide-induced apoptosis, and generating sphingosine, a precursor of the antiapoptotic factor sphingosine 1-phosphate. Probably involved in the digestion of dietary sphingolipids in intestine by acting as a key enzyme for the catabolism of dietary sphingolipids and regulating the levels of bioactive sphingolipid metabolites in the intestinal tract	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CDS2	Provides CDP-diacylglycerol an important precursor for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CYB5R1	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductases are involved in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CYP11B1	Has steroid 11-beta-hydroxylase activity. In addition to this activity, the 18 or 19-hydroxylation of steroids and the aromatization of androstendione to estrone have also been ascribed to cytochrome P450 XIB	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FABP6	Ileal protein which stimulates gastric acid and pepsinogen secretion. Seems to be able to bind to bile salts and bilirubins	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GPAT2	Esterifies acyl-group from acyl-ACP to the sn-1 position of glycerol-3-phosphate, an essential step in glycerolipid biosynthesis (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HSD3B1	3-beta-HSD is a bifunctional enzyme, that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of Delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HSD3B2	3-beta-HSD is a bifunctional enzyme, that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of Delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRELID3A	similarity:Belongs to the slowmo familysimilarity:Contains 1 PRELI/MSF1 domain	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRELID3B	similarity:Belongs to the slowmo familysimilarity:Contains 1 PRELI/MSF1 domain	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC27A3	caution:It is uncertain whether Met-1 or Met-48 is the initiatorfunction:Has acyl-CoA ligase activity for long-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids. Does not exhibit fatty acid transport activitysequence caution:Translation N-terminally extendedsimilarity:Belongs to the ATP-dependent AMP-binding enzyme family	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LACTB	This gene encodes a mitochondrially-localized protein that has sequence similarity to prokaryotic beta-lactamases. Many of the residues responsible for beta-lactamase activity are not conserved in this protein, suggesting it may have a different enzymatic function. Increased expression of the related mouse gene was found to be associated with obesity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013],	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
SARDH	This gene encodes an enzyme localized to the mitochondrial matrix which catalyzes the oxidative demethylation of sarcosine. This enzyme is distinct from another mitochondrial matrix enzyme, dimethylglycine dehydrogenase, which catalyzes a reaction resulting in the formation of sarcosine. Mutations in this gene are associated with sarcosinemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008],	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
DMGDH	This gene encodes an enzyme involved in the catabolism of choline, catalyzing the oxidative demethylation of dimethylglycine to form sarcosine. The enzyme is found as a monomer in the mitochondrial matrix, and uses flavin adenine dinucleotide and folate as cofactors. Mutation in this gene causes dimethylglycine dehydrogenase deficiency, characterized by a fishlike body odor, chronic muscle fatigue, and elevated levels of the muscle form of creatine kinase in serum. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
CYP27A1	Catalyzes the first step in the oxidation of the side chain of sterol intermediates; the 27-hydroxylation of 5-beta- cholestane-3-alpha,7-alpha,12-alpha-triol. Has also a vitamin D3- 25-hydroxylase activity	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
ACACA	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system. ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. There are two ACC forms, alpha and beta, encoded by two different genes. ACC-alpha is highly enriched in lipogenic tissues. The enzyme is under long term control at the transcriptional and translational levels and under short term regulation by the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of targeted serine residues and by allosteric transformation by citrate or palmitoyl-CoA. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants divergent in the 5&apos; sequence and encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
PISD	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of phosphatidylserine to phosphatidylethanolamine in the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein is active in phospholipid metabolism and interorganelle trafficking of phosphatidylserine. [provided by RefSeq, May 2016],	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
OPA3	May play some role in mitochondrial processes	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
STARD7	similarity:Contains 1 START domain	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
ACSS3	Activates acetate so that it can be used for lipid synthesis or for energy generation (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
NUDT19	Coenzyme A diphosphatase that mediates the hydrolysis of a wide range of CoA esters, including choloyl-CoA and branched- chain fatty-acyl-CoA esters. At low substrate concentrations medium and long-chain fatty-acyl-CoA esters are the primary substrates (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
FDPS	Key enzyme in isoprenoid biosynthesis which catalyzes the formation of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP), a precursor for several classes of essential metabolites including sterols, dolichols, carotenoids, and ubiquinones. FPP also serves as substrate for protein farnesylation and geranylgeranylation. Catalyzes the sequential condensation of isopentenyl pyrophosphate with the allylic pyrophosphates, dimethylallyl pyrophosphate, and then with the resultant geranylpyrophosphate to the ultimate product farnesyl pyrophosphate	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
AGPAT5	Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid by incorporating an acyl moiety at the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
ABCD1	Probable transporter. The nucleotide-binding fold acts as an ATP-binding subunit with ATPase activity	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
ACP6	Hydrolyzes lysophosphatidic acid to monoacylglycerol	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
CYB5R3	This gene encodes cytochrome b5 reductase, which includes a membrane-bound form in somatic cells (anchored in the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrial and other membranes) and a soluble form in erythrocytes. The membrane-bound form exists mainly on the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum and functions in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, in cholesterol biosynthesis, and in drug metabolism. The erythrocyte form is located in a soluble fraction of circulating erythrocytes and is involved in methemoglobin reduction. The membrane-bound form has both membrane-binding and catalytic domains, while the soluble form has only the catalytic domain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene cause methemoglobinemias. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010],	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
CYP11A1	Catalyzes the side-chain cleavage reaction of cholesterol to pregnenolone	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
GPAM	Esterifies acyl-group from acyl-ACP to the sn-1 position of glycerol-3-phosphate, an essential step in glycerolipid biosynthesis	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
CYP11B2	Preferentially catalyzes the conversion of 11- deoxycorticosterone to aldosterone via corticosterone and 18- hydroxycorticosterone	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
NEU4	May function in lysosomal catabolism of sialylated glycoconjugates. Has sialidase activity towards synthetic substrates, such as 2'-(4-methylumbelliferyl)-alpha-D-N- acetylneuraminic acid (4-MU-NANA or 4MU-NeuAc). Has a broad substrate specificity being active on glycoproteins, oligosaccharides and sialylated glycolipids	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
CYB5R2	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductases are involved in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction (By similarity). Responsible for NADH-dependent lucigenin chemiluminescence in spermatozoa by reducing both lucigenin and 2-[4-iodophenyl]-3-[4-nitrophenyl]-5-[2,4- disulfophenyl]-2H tetrazolium monosodium salt (WST-1)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
SERAC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphatidylglycerol remodeling protein found at the interface of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticula, where it mediates phospholipid exchange. The encoded protein plays a major role in mitochondrial function and intracellular cholesterol trafficking. Defects in this gene are a cause of 3-methylglutaconic aciduria with deafness, encephalopathy, and Leigh-like syndrome (MEGDEL). Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012],	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
ASAH2	Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid at an optimal pH of 6.5-8.5. Acts as a key regulator of sphingolipid signaling metabolites by generating sphingosine at the cell surface. Acts as a repressor of apoptosis both by reducing C16-ceramide, thereby preventing ceramide-induced apoptosis, and generating sphingosine, a precursor of the antiapoptotic factor sphingosine 1-phosphate. Probably involved in the digestion of dietary sphingolipids in intestine by acting as a key enzyme for the catabolism of dietary sphingolipids and regulating the levels of bioactive sphingolipid metabolites in the intestinal tractMay hydrolyze the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins	present in both datasets 
DHRS2	This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family, which has over 46,000 members. Members of this family are enzymes that metabolize many different compounds, such as steroid hormones, prostaglandins, retinoids, lipids and xenobiotics. 	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MMAA	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the translocation of cobalamin into the mitochondrion, where it is used in the final steps of adenosylcobalamin synthesis. Adenosylcobalamin is a coenzyme required for the activity of methylmalonyl-CoA mutase. Defects in this gene are a cause of methylmalonic aciduria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NAXD	similarity:Belongs to the YjeF familysimilarity:Contains 1 YjeF C-terminal domain	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NAXE	The product of this gene interacts with apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), the major apolipoprotein of high-density lipoproteins (HDLs). It is secreted into some bodily fluids, and its synthesis and secretion are stimulated in vitro by incubating cells with apoA-I. The human genome contains related pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CLYBL	caution:This organism lacks the other subunits that are necessary for ATP-independent citrate lyase activity. Even though this protein has clear similarity to citrate lyase beta subunit, it is expected to have a somewhat different enzyme activitycofactor:Binds 1 magnesium ion per subunitsimilarity:Belongs to the hpcH/hpaI aldolase family. Citrate lyase beta subunit-like subfamily	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
DHRS4	3-keto sterol reductase activity, oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor, steroid metabolic process	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
RDH13	This gene encodes a mitochondrial short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase, which catalyzes the reduction and oxidation of retinoids. The encoded enzyme may function in retinoic acid production and may also protect the mitochondria against oxidative stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
COASY	Bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the fourth and fifth sequential steps of CoA biosynthetic pathway. The fourth reaction is catalyzed by the phosphopantetheine adenylyltransferase, coded by the coaD domain; the fifth reaction is catalyzed by the dephospho-CoA kinase, coded by the coaE domain. May act as a point of CoA biosynthesis regulation	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
MMAB	This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the final step in the conversion of vitamin B(12) into adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl), a vitamin B12-containing coenzyme for methylmalonyl-CoA mutase. Mutations in the gene are the cause of vitamin B12-dependent methylmalonic aciduria linked to the cblB complementation group. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
NMNAT3	Catalyzes the formation of NAD(+) from nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) and ATP. Can also use the deamidated form; nicotinic acid mononucleotide (NaMN) as substrate with the same efficiency. Can use triazofurin monophosphate (TrMP) as substrate. Can also use GTP and ITP as nucleotide donors. Also catalyzes the reverse reaction, i.e. the pyrophosphorolytic cleavage of NAD(+). For the pyrophosphorolytic activity, can use NAD (+), NADH, NAAD, nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NHD), nicotinamide guanine dinucleotide (NGD) as substrates. Fails to cleave phosphorylated dinucleotides NADP(+), NADPH and NAADP(+). Protects against axonal degeneration following injury	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
AKR1B10	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member can efficiently reduce aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes, and it is less active on hexoses. It is highly expressed in adrenal gland, small intestine, and colon, and may play an important role in liver carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
CYB5B	Cytochrome b5 is a membrane bound hemoprotein which function as an electron carrier for several membrane bound oxygenases (By similarity)	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
MMADHC	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is involved in an early step of vitamin B12 metabolism. Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is essential for normal development and survival in humans. Mutations in this gene cause methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblD (MMADHC), a disorder of cobalamin metabolism that is characterized by decreased levels of the coenzymes adenosylcobalamin and methylcobalamin. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 11 and X.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
CYB5A	Cytochrome b5 is a membrane bound hemoprotein which function as an electron carrier for several membrane bound oxygenases	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
PANK2	May be the master regulator of the CoA biosynthesis (By similarity)	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
CYP24A1	Has a role in maintaining calcium homeostasis. Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent 24-hydroxylation of calcidiol (25- hydroxyvitamin D(3)) and calcitriol (1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3)). The enzyme can perform up to 6 rounds of hydroxylation of calcitriol leading to calcitroic acid. It also shows 23- hydroxylating activity leading to 1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3)-26,23-lactone as end product	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
CYP27B1	Catalyzes the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25(OH)D) to 1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D) plays an important role in normal bone growth, calcium metabolism, and tissue differentiation	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors	present in both datasets 
SLC25A2	Ornithine transport across inner mitochondrial membrane, from the cytoplasm to the matrix	Mitochondrial Carrier	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC25A52	This gene is similar to the mitochondrial carrier triple repeat 1 gene on chromosome 9. The gene is intronless and may be an evolving pseudogene; however, it is transcribed and it contains a full-length coding region so it is currently classified as a protein-coding locus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC27A1	Involved in translocation of long-chain fatty acids (LFCA) across the plasma membrane. The LFCA import appears to be hormone-regulated in a tissue-specific manner. In adipocytes, but not myocytes, insulin induces a rapid translocation of Fatp1 from intracellular compartments to the plasma membrane, paralleled by increased LFCA uptake. May act directly as a bona fide transporter, or alternatively, in a cytoplasmic or membrane- associated multimeric protein complex to trap and draw fatty acids towards accumulation. Plays a pivotal role in regulating available LFCA substrates from exogenous sources in tissues undergoing high levels of beta-oxidation or triglyceride synthesis. May be involved in regulation of cholesterol metabolism. Has acyl-CoA ligase activity for long-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC29A1	Mediates both influx and efflux of nucleosides across the membrane (equilibrative transporter). It is sensitive (ES) to low concentrations of the inhibitor nitrobenzylmercaptopurine riboside (NBMPR) and is sodium-independent. It has a higher affinity for adenosine. Inhibited by dipyridamole and dilazep (anticancer chemotherapeutics drugs)	Mitochondrial Carrier	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC3A1	Involved in the high-affinity, sodium-independent transport of cystine and neutral and dibasic amino acids (system B(0,+)-like activity). May function as an activator of SLC7A9 and be involved in the high-affinity reabsorption of cystine in the kidney tubule	Mitochondrial Carrier	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC44A1	function:Probable choline transporter. May be involved in membrane synthesis and myelin productionsimilarity:Belongs to the CTL (choline transporter-like) familytissue specificity:Expressed in various cells of the hematopoietic system	Mitochondrial Carrier	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SLC25A3	Transport of phosphate groups from the cytosol to the mitochondrial matrix. Phosphate is cotransported with H(+)	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A20	Mediates the transport of acylcarnitines of different length across the mitochondrial inner membrane from the cytosol to the mitochondrial matrix for their oxidation by the mitochondrial fatty acid-oxidation pathway	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A35	SLC25A35 belongs to the SLC25 family of mitochondrial carrier proteins (Haitina et al 2006 [PubMed 16949250]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A11	Catalyzes the transport of 2-oxoglutarate across the inner mitochondrial membrane in an electroneutral exchange for malate or other dicarboxylic acids, and plays an important role in several metabolic processes, including the malate-aspartate shuttle, the oxoglutarate/isocitrate shuttle, in gluconeogenesis from lactate, and in nitrogen metabolism	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A1	This gene encodes a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier proteins. Members of this family include nuclear-encoded transporters that translocate small metabolites across the mitochondrial membrane. This protein regulates the movement of citrate across the inner membranes of the mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Pseudogenes of this gene have been identified on chromosomes 7, 11, 16, and 19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A42	This gene encodes a solute carrier family 25 protein. Solute carrier family 25 proteins are localized to mitochondria and play critical roles in the transport of molecules across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial transporter for coenzyme A (CoA) and adenosine 3&apos;,5&apos;-diphosphate. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A30	Although the outer mitochondrial membrane is permeable to many small metabolites, transport of solutes across the inner mitochondrial membrane is achieved by members of the mitochondrial carrier protein family, such as SLC25A30 (Haguenauer et al 2005 [PubMed 15809292]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A10	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that translocate small metabolites across the mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein exchanges dicarboxylates, such as malate and succinate, for phosphate, sulfate, and other small molecules, thereby providing substrates for metabolic processes including the Krebs cycle and fatty acid synthesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A19	Mitochondrial transporter mediating uptake of thiamine pyrophosphate (ThPP) into mitochondria	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A15	Ornithine transport across inner mitochondrial membrane, from the cytoplasm to the matrix	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A25	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of calcium-binding mitochondrial carriers, with a characteristic mitochondrial carrier domain at the C-terminus. These proteins are found in the inner membranes of mitochondria, and function as transport proteins. They shuttle metabolites, nucleotides and cofactors through the mitochondrial membrane and thereby connect and/or regulate cytoplasm and matrix functions. This protein may function as an ATP-Mg/Pi carrier that mediates the transport of Mg-ATP in exchange for phosphate, and likely responsible for the net uptake or efflux of adenine nucleotides into or from the mitochondria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with a common C-terminus but variable N-termini have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A51	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A26	Mitochondrial solute carriers shuttle metabolites, nucleotides, and cofactors through the mitochondrial inner membrane. Specifically mediates the transport of S- adenosylmethionine (SAM) into the mitochondria	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A18	Involved in the transport of glutamate across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Glutamate is cotransported with H(+)	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A22	Involved in the transport of glutamate across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Glutamate is cotransported with H(+)	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A24	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial solute carrier. Mitochondrial solute carriers shuttle metabolites, nucleotides, and cofactors through the mitochondrial inner membrane. May act as a ATP-Mg/Pi exchanger that mediates the transport of Mg-ATP in exchange for phosphate, catalyzing the net uptake or efflux of adenine nucleotides into or from the mitochondria	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A16	Required for the accumulation of coenzyme A in the mitochondrial matrix	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
UCP1	UCP are mitochondrial transporter proteins that create proton leaks across the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis. As a result, energy is dissipated in the form of heat	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A45	SLC25A45 belongs to the SLC25 family of mitochondrial carrier proteins (Haitina et al 2006 [PubMed 16949250]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A21	Transports C5-C7 oxodicarboxylates across the inner membranes of mitochondria. Can transport 2-oxoadipate, 2- oxoglutarate, adipate, glutarate, and to a lesser extent, pimelate, 2-oxopimelate, 2-aminoadipate, oxaloacetate, and citrate	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A29	Has palmitoylcarnitine transporting activity (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A39	This gene encodes a member of the SLC25 transporter or mitochondrial carrier family of proteins. Members of this family are encoded by the nuclear genome while their protein products are usually embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane and exhibit wide-ranging substrate specificity. Although the encoded protein is currently considered an orphan transporter, this protein is related to other carriers known to transport amino acids. This protein may play a role in iron homeostasis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A44	SLC25A44 belongs to the SLC25 family of mitochondrial carrier proteins (Haitina et al 2006 [PubMed 16949250]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A14	Participates in the mitochondrial proton leak measured in brain mitochondria	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A27	UCP are mitochondrial transporter proteins that create proton leaks across the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis. As a result, energy is dissipated in the form of heat. May play a role in thermoregulatory heat production and metabolism in brain	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A23	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial solute carrier. Mitochondrial solute carriers shuttle metabolites, nucleotides, and cofactors through the mitochondrial inner membrane. May act as a ATP-Mg/Pi exchanger that mediates the transport of Mg-ATP in exchange for phosphate, catalyzing the net uptake or efflux of adenine nucleotides into or from the mitochondria	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
UCP3	UCP are mitochondrial transporter proteins that create proton leaks across the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. As a result, energy is dissipated in the form of heat. May play a role in the modulation of tissue respiratory control. Participates in thermogenesis and energy balance	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A40	SLC25A40 belongs to the SLC25 family of mitochondrial carrier proteins (Haitina et al 2006 [PubMed 16949250]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A36	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeatstissue specificity:Expressed at moderate level	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A38	This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier family. The encoded protein is required during erythropoiesis and is important for the biosynthesis of heme. Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal congenital sideroblastic anemia.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A33	Probable mitochondrial transporter which participates in dendritic cell endocytosis. May associate with mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A53	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC16A7	This gene is a member of the monocarboxylate transporter family. Members in this family transport metabolites, such as lactate, pyruvate, and ketone bodies. The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the proton-linked transport of monocarboxylates and has the highest affinity for pyruvate. This protein has been reported to be more highly expressed in prostate and colorectal cancer specimens when compared to control specimens. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A34	SLC25A34 belongs to the SLC25 family of mitochondrial carrier proteins (Haitina et al 2006 [PubMed 16949250]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A41	SLC25A41 belongs to the SLC25 family of mitochondrial carrier proteins (Haitina et al 2006 [PubMed 16949250]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A43	This gene encodes a member of the mitochondrial carrier family of proteins.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009],	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A48	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
UCP2	UCP are mitochondrial transporter proteins that create proton leaks across the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis. As a result, energy is dissipated in the form of heat	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC25A47	Uncoupling protein which may catalyze the physiological 'proton leak' in liver. Overexpression induces the dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
SLC22A4	Sodium-ion dependent, low affinity carnitine transporter. Probably transports one sodium ion with one molecule of carnitine. Also transports organic cations such as tetraethylammonium (TEA) without the involvement of sodium. Relative uptake activity ratio of carnitine to TEA is 1.78. A key substrate of this transporter seems to be ergothioneine (ET)	Mitochondrial Carrier	present in both datasets 
ACTR2	The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, the protein it encodes is known to be a major constituent of the ARP2/3 complex. This complex is located at the cell surface and is essential to cell shape and motility through lamellipodial actin assembly and protrusion. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
AGTPBP1	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates deglutamylation of target proteins. Catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamate side chains generated by post-translational polyglutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. Also removes gene-encoded polyglutamates from the carboxy-terminus of target proteins such as MYLK. Acts as a long-chain deglutamylase and specifically shortens long polyglutamate chains, while it is not able to remove the branching point glutamate, a process catalyzed by AGBL5/CCP5. 	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ARPC3	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been conserved through evolution and is implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. 	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ARPC5	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells and has been conserved through evolution. The exact role of the protein encoded by this gene, the p16 subunit, has yet to be determined. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been observed for this gene.	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ARPC5L	May function as component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks.	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
KIF1BP	Required for organization of axonal microtubules, and axonal outgrowth and maintenance during peripheral and central nervous system development. Regulates mitochondrial transport by modulating KIF1B motor activity	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
KIF5B	Microtubule-dependent motor required for normal distribution of mitochondria and lysosomes (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MAP1LC3A	MAP1A and MAP1B are microtubule-associated proteins which mediate the physical interactions between microtubules and components of the cytoskeleton. MAP1A and MAP1B each consist of a heavy chain subunit and multiple light chain subunits. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the light chain subunits and can associate with either MAP1A or MAP1B. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The expression of variant 1 is suppressed in many tumor cell lines, suggesting that may be involved in carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MICOS10	cristae formation; MICOS complex	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MICOS13	cristae formation; MICOS complex	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MIEF2	This gene encodes an outer mitochondrial membrane protein that functions in the regulation of mitochondrial morphology. It can directly recruit the fission mediator dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) to the mitochondrial surface. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MSTO1	function:Involved in the regulation of mitochondrial distribution and morphologysimilarity:Belongs to the misato familytissue specificity:Present in all cell lines tested (at protein level). Widely expressed	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTFR2	May play a role in mitochondrial aerobic respiration essentially in the testis. Can also promote mitochondrial fission (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PKIA	Extremely potent competitive inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity, this protein interacts with the catalytic subunit of the enzyme after the cAMP-induced dissociation of its regulatory chains	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PLD6	catalytic activity:A phosphatidylcholine + H(2)O = choline + a phosphatidatesimilarity:Belongs to the phospholipase D familysimilarity:Contains 1 PLD phosphodiesterase domain	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SH3GLB1	May be required for normal outer mitochondrial membrane dynamics. Required for coatomer-mediated retrograde transport in certain cells. May recruit other proteins to membranes with high curvature. May promote membrane fusion	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SQSTM1	Adapter protein which binds ubiquitin and may regulate the activation of NFKB1 by TNF-alpha, nerve growth factor (NGF) and interleukin-1. May play a role in titin/TTN downstream signaling in muscle cells. May regulate signaling cascades through ubiquitination. May be involved in cell differentiation, apoptosis, immune response and regulation of K(+) channels	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SYBU	Syntabulin/GOLSYN is part of a kinesin motor-adaptor complex that is critical for the anterograde axonal transport of active zone components and contributes to activity-dependent presynaptic assembly during neuronal development (Cai et al 2007 [PubMed 17611281]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TRAK1	PTM:O-glycosylatedsimilarity:Contains 1 HAP1 N-terminal domainsubunit:Interacts with O-GlcNAc transferase. Interacts with RHOT1/Miro-1 and RHOT2/Miro-2tissue specificity:High expression in spinal cord and moderate expression in all other tissues and specific brain regions examined. Expressed in all cell lines examined	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TRAK2	PTM:O-glycosylatedsimilarity:Contains 1 HAP1 N-terminal domainsubunit:Interacts with GABA-A receptor and O-GlcNAc transferase (By similarity). Interacts with RHOT1/Miro-1 and RHOT2/Miro-2tissue specificity:Widely expressed, with highest expression in heart	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
USP30	May participate in the maintenance of mitochondrial morphology	Mitochondrial Dynamics	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
AFG3L2	Putative ATP-dependent protease	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
OPA1	Dynamin-related GTPase required for mitochondrial fusion and regulation of apoptosis. May form a diffusion barrier for proteins stored in mitochondrial cristae. Proteolytic processing in response to intrinsic apoptotic signals may lead to disassembly of OPA1 oligomers and release of the caspase activator cytochrome C (CYCS) into the mitochondrial intermembrane space	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
APOOL	This gene encodes a protein which contains an apolipoprotein O superfamily domain. This domain is found on proteins in circulating lipoprotein complexes. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
IMMT	cristae formation, calcium homeostasis	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
SLC25A4	Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
PHB2	Acts as a mediator of transcriptional repression by nuclear hormone receptors via recruitment of histone deacetylases (By similarity). Functions as an estrogen receptor (ER)-selective coregulator that potentiates the inhibitory activities of antiestrogens and represses the activity of estrogens. Competes with NCOA1 for modulation of ER transcriptional activity. Probably involved in regulating mitochondrial respiration activity and in aging	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MFN1	Essential transmembrane GTPase, which mediates mitochondrial fusion. Fusion of mitochondria occurs in many cell types and constitutes an important step in mitochondria morphology, which is balanced between fusion and fission. MFN1 acts independently of the cytoskeleton. Overexpression induces the formation of mitochondrial networks	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
SLC25A5	Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
CHCHD3	The protein encoded by this gene is an inner mitochondrial membrane scaffold protein. Absence of the encoded protein affects the structural integrity of mitochondrial cristae and leads to reductions in ATP production, cell growth, and oxygen consumption. This protein is part of the mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
CHCHD10	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is enriched at cristae junctions in the intermembrane space. It may play a role in cristae morphology maintenance or oxidative phosphorylation. Mutations in this gene cause frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-2. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 7 and 19. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
STOML2	similarity:Belongs to the band 7/mec-2 familysubcellular location:Associated with the cytoskeletonsubunit:Interacts with CACNA2D2tissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed at low levels	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
ATAD3A	ATAD3A and ATAD3B (MIM 612317) are mitochondrial membrane proteins that contribute to the stabilization of large mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-protein complexes called nucleoids (He et al 2007 [PubMed 17210950]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2008],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
SPG7	Putative ATP-dependent protease	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MFN2	Essential transmembrane GTPase, which mediates mitochondrial fusion. Fusion of mitochondria occurs in many cell types and constitutes an important step in mitochondria morphology, which is balanced between fusion and fission. MFN2 acts independently of the cytoskeleton. It therefore plays a central role in mitochondrial metabolism and may be associated with obesity and/or apoptosis processes. Overexpression induces the formation of mitochondrial networks. Plays an important role in the regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
SLC25A31	Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the mitochondrial inner membrane. May serve to mediate energy generating and energy consuming processes in the distal flagellum, possibly as a nucleotide shuttle between flagellar glycolysis, protein phosphorylation and mechanisms of motility	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
TMEM11	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM11 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
RHOT2	Mitochondrial GTPase involved in mitochondrial trafficking. Probably involved in control of anterograde transport of mitochondria and their subcellular distribution (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
SLC25A46	This gene encodes a mitochondrial solute carrier protein family member. It functions in promoting mitochondrial fission, and prevents the formation of hyperfilamentous mitochondria. Mutation of this gene results in neuropathy and optic atrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
FUNDC2	similarity:Belongs to the FUN14 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
APOO	Promotes cholesterol efflux from macrophage cells. Detected in HDL, LDL and VLDL. Secreted by a microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP)-dependent mechanism, probably as a VLDL-associated protein that is subsequently transferred to HDL. May be involved in myocardium-protective mechanisms against lipid accumulation	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
TCAIM	mitochondrial protein regulating in T-cell activation	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MTFR1L	similarity:Belongs to the MTFR1/FAM54 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
FIS1	The balance between fission and fusion regulates the morphology of mitochondria. TTC11 is a component of a mitochondrial complex that promotes mitochondrial fission (James et al 2003 [PubMed 12783892]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
OMA1	Mitochondrial protease (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
RHOT1	function:Mitochondrial GTPase involved in mitochondrial trafficking. Probably involved in control of anterograde transport of mitochondria and their subcellular distributionsimilarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial Rho GTPase familysimilarity:Contains 2 EF-hand domainssimilarity:Contains 2 Miro domainssubunit:Interacts with the kinesin-binding proteins TRAK1/OIP106 and TRAK2/GRIF1, forming a link between mitochondria and the trafficking apparatus of the microtubulestissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed. Expressed at high level in heart and skeletal muscle	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MTFP1	Essential for cell viability. May have a role in maintaining the integrity of the mitochondrial network. Loss-of- function induces the release of cytochrome c, which activates the caspase cascade and leads to apoptosis	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
DNM1L	Functions in mitochondrial and peroxisomal division probably by regulating membrane fission. Enzyme hydrolyzing GTP that oligomerizes to form ring-like structures and is able to remodel membranes. May also play a role on organelles of the secretory pathway	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
FUNDC1	This gene encodes a protein with a FUN14 superfamily domain. The function of the encoded protein is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MTFR1	Promote mitochondrial fission (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
LYRM1	May promote cell proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis of preadipocytes	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
GDAP1	May function in a signal transduction pathway responsible for ganglioside-induced neurite differentiation. May also have a role in protecting myelin membranes against free radical-mediated damage	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
WDR81	This gene encodes a multi-domain transmembrane protein, which is predominantly expressed in the brain. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation, and dysequilibrium syndrome-2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
CHCHD6	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MFF	Plays a role in mitochondrial and peroxisomal fission	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
Mar-05	MARCH5 is a ubiquitin ligase of the mitochondrial outer membrane that plays a role in the control of mitochondrial morphology by regulating mitofusin-2 (MFN2; MIM 608507) and DRP1 (DNM1L; MIM 603850) (Nakamura et al 2006 [PubMed 16936636]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
SLC25A6	Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the mitochondrial inner membrane. May participate in the formation of the permeability transition pore complex (PTPC) responsible for the release of mitochondrial products that triggers apoptosis	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MIEF1	similarity:Belongs to the SMCR7 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
KIF1B	Motor for anterograde transport of mitochondria. Has a microtubule plus end-directed motility	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
ATAD3B	The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondrial inner membrane, where it can bind to a highly-related protein, ATAD3A. ATAD3A appears to interact with matrix nucleoid complexes, and the encoded protein negatively regulates that interaction. This gene is expressed almost exclusively in pluripotent embryonic stem cells and some cancer cells. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015],	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
MGARP	tissue specificity:Found in ovary and corneal endothelial cells	Mitochondrial Dynamics	present in both datasets 
AKT1	The serine-threonine protein kinase encoded by the AKT1 gene is catalytically inactive in serum-starved primary and immortalized fibroblasts. AKT1 and the related AKT2 are activated by platelet-derived growth factor. The activation is rapid and specific, and it is abrogated by mutations in the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT1. It was shown that the activation occurs through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. In the developing nervous system AKT is a critical mediator of growth factor-induced neuronal survival. Survival factors can suppress apoptosis in a transcription-independent manner by activating the serine/threonine kinase AKT1, which then phosphorylates and inactivates components of the apoptotic machinery. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the Proteus syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GSK3B	Participates in the Wnt signaling pathway. Implicated in the hormonal control of several regulatory proteins including glycogen synthase, MYB and the transcription factor JUN. Phosphorylates JUN at sites proximal to its DNA-binding domain, thereby reducing its affinity for DNA. Phosphorylates MUC1 in breast cancer cells, and decreases the interaction of MUC1 with CTNNB1/beta-catenin	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTOR	Acts as the target for the cell-cycle arrest and immunosuppressive effects of the FKBP12-rapamycin complex. Part of the TORC2 complex which plays a critical role in AKT1 Ser-473 phosphorylation, and may modulate the phosphorylation of PKCA and regulate actin cytoskeleton organization	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRKACA	This gene encodes one of the catalytic subunits of protein kinase A, which exists as a tetrameric holoenzyme with two regulatory subunits and two catalytic subunits, in its inactive form. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric catalytic subunits. Four different regulatory subunits and three catalytic subunits have been identified in humans. cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of proteins by protein kinase A is important to many cellular processes, including differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. Constitutive activation of this gene caused either by somatic mutations, or genomic duplications of regions that include this gene, have been associated with hyperplasias and adenomas of the adrenal cortex and are linked to corticotropin-independent Cushing&apos;s syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Tissue-specific isoforms that differ at the N-terminus have been described, and these isoforms may differ in the post-translational modifications that occur at the N-terminus of some isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015],	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRKCE	Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This kinase has been shown to be involved in many different cellular functions, such as neuron channel activation, apoptosis, cardioprotection from ischemia, heat shock response, as well as insulin exocytosis. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this kinase is important for lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated signaling in activated macrophages and may also play a role in controlling anxiety-like behavior. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SHC1	This gene encodes three main isoforms that differ in activities and subcellular location. While all three are adapter proteins in signal transduction pathways, the longest (p66Shc) may be involved in regulating life span and the effects of reactive oxygen species. The other two isoforms, p52Shc and p46Shc, link activated receptor tyrosine kinases to the Ras pathway by recruitment of the GRB2/SOS complex. p66Shc is not involved in Ras activation. Unlike the other two isoforms, p46Shc is targeted to the mitochondrial matrix. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011],	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SIRT1	NAD-dependent deacetylase, which regulates processes such as apoptosis and muscle differentiation by deacetylating key proteins. Deacetylates 'Lys-382' of p53/TP53 and impairs its ability to induce proapoptotic program and modulate cell senescence. Deacetylates TAF1B and thereby represses rDNA transcription by the RNA polymerase I. Involved in HES1- and HEY2- mediated transcriptional repression. Inhibits skeletal muscle differentiation by deacetylating PCAF and MYOD1. May serve as a sensor of the cytosolic ratio of NAD(+)/NADH, which is essential in skeletal muscle cell differentiation. Despite some ability to deacetylate histones in vitro, such activity is either weak or inexistent in vivo. In case of HIV-1 infection, interacts with and deacetylates the viral Tat protein	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SIRT2	NAD-dependent deacetylase, which deacetylates the 'Lys- 40' of alpha-tubulin. Involved in the control of mitotic exit in the cell cycle, probably via its role in the regulation of cytoskeleton. Despite some ability to deacetylate histones in vitro, it is unlikely in vivo	Mitochondrial Signaling	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
IDE	This gene encodes a zinc metallopeptidase that degrades intracellular insulin, and thereby terminates insulins activity, as well as participating in intercellular peptide signalling by degrading diverse peptides such as glucagon, amylin, bradykinin, and kallidin. The preferential affinity of this enzyme for insulin results in insulin-mediated inhibition of the degradation of other peptides such as beta-amyloid. Deficiencies in this protein&apos;s function are associated with Alzheimer&apos;s disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus but mutations in this gene have not been shown to be causitive for these diseases. This protein localizes primarily to the cytoplasm but in some cell types localizes to the extracellular space, cell membrane, peroxisome, and mitochondrion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described but have not been experimentally verified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009],	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
AKAP1	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein binds to type I and type II regulatory subunits of PKA and anchors them to the mitochondrion. This protein is speculated to be involved in the cAMP-dependent signal transduction pathway and in directing RNA to a specific cellular compartment. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
SIRT3	NAD-dependent deacetylase. Despite some ability to deacetylate histones in vitro, it is unlikely in vivo	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
SIRT5	Probable NAD-dependent deacetylase (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
CHCHD2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a class of eukaryotic CX(9)C proteins characterized by four cysteine residues spaced ten amino acids apart from one another. These residues form disulfide linkages that define a CHCH fold. In response to stress, the protein translocates from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to the nucleus where it binds to a highly conserved 13 nucleotide oxygen responsive element in the promoter of cytochrome oxidase 4I2, a subunit of the terminal enzyme of the electron transport chain. In concert with recombination signal sequence-binding protein J, binding of this protein activates the oxygen responsive element at four percent oxygen. In addition, it has been shown that this protein is a negative regulator of mitochondria-mediated apoptosis. In response to apoptotic stimuli, mitochondrial levels of this protein decrease, allowing BCL2-associated X protein to oligomerize and activate the caspase cascade. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on multiple chromosomes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016],	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
MAVS	This gene encodes an intermediary protein necessary in the virus-triggered beta interferon signaling pathways. It is required for activation of transcription factors which regulate expression of beta interferon and contributes to antiviral immunity. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011],	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
SYNJ2BP	similarity:Contains 1 PDZ (DHR) domainsubunit:Binds (via the PDZ domain) to isoform 2A of SYNJ2 (via the unique motif in the C-terminus)	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
NLRX1	Participates in antiviral signaling. Acts as a negative regulator of MAVS-mediated antiviral responses, through the inhibition of the virus-induced RLH (RIG-like helicase)-MAVS interaction (PubMed:18200010). Has no inhibitory function on NF- Kappa-B and type 1 interferon signaling pathways, but enhances NF- Kappa-B and JUN N-terminal kinase dependent signaling through the production of reactive oxygen species (PubMed:18219313)	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
SIRT4	Probable NAD-dependent deacetylase (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
AKAP10	This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchor protein family. A-kinase anchor proteins bind to the regulatory subunits of protein kinase A (PKA) and confine the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and interacts with both the type I and type II regulatory subunits of PKA. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with increased risk of arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012],	Mitochondrial Signaling	present in both datasets 
AMBRA1	function:Regulates autophagy and development of the nervous system. Involved in autophagy in controlling protein turnover during neuronal development, and in regulating normal cell survival and proliferationsimilarity:Contains 3 WD repeatssubunit:Interacts with BECN1. Probably forms a complex with BECN1 and PIK3C. AMBRA1 regulates mitophagy through a novel pathway, in which HUWE1 and IKKalpha are key factors, shedding new lights on the regulation of mitochondrial quality control and homoeostasis in mammalian cells.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATG5	The protein encoded by this gene, in combination with autophagy protein 12, functions as an E1-like activating enzyme in a ubiquitin-like conjugating system. The encoded protein is involved in several cellular processes, including autophagic vesicle formation, mitochondrial quality control after oxidative damage, negative regulation of the innate antiviral immune response, lymphocyte development and proliferation, MHC II antigen presentation, adipocyte differentiation, and apoptosis. Several transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. 	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATG9B	This gene functions in the regulation of autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway. This gene also functions as an antisense transcript in the posttranscriptional regulation of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase 3 gene, which has 3' overlap with this gene on the opposite strand. Mutations in this gene and disruption of the autophagy process have been associated with multiple cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BECN1	This gene encodes a protein that regulates autophagy, a catabolic process of degradation induced by starvation. The encoded protein is a component of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) complex which mediates vesicle-trafficking processes. This protein is thought to play a role in multiple cellular processes, including tumorigenesis, neurodegeneration and apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015]	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
BECN2	involved in autophagy, mitophagy; endosome to lysosome transport; cellular response to nitrogen starvation; autophagosome assembly;	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CALCOCO2	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein functions as a receptor for ubiquitin-coated bacteria and plays an important role in innate immunity by mediating macroautophagy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. 	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CITED2	The protein encoded by this gene inhibits transactivation of HIF1A-induced genes by competing with binding of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha to p300-CH1. Mutations in this gene are a cause of cardiac septal defects. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GABARAP	May play a role in intracellular transport of GABA(A) receptors and its interaction with the cytoskeleton (By similarity)	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
OPTN	This gene encodes the coiled-coil containing protein optineurin. Optineurin may play a role in normal-tension glaucoma and adult-onset primary open angle glaucoma. Optineurin interacts with adenovirus E3-14.7K protein and may utilize tumor necrosis factor-alpha or Fas-ligand pathways to mediate apoptosis, inflammation or vasoconstriction. Optineurin may also function in cellular morphogenesis and membrane trafficking, vesicle trafficking, and transcription activation through its interactions with the RAB8, huntingtin, and transcription factor IIIA proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Has been implicated in Mitophagy.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRKN	The precise function of this gene is unknown; however, the encoded protein is a component of a multiprotein E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that mediates the targeting of substrate proteins for proteasomal degradation. Mutations in this gene are known to cause Parkinson disease and autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinson disease. Alternative splicing of this gene produces multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional splice variants of this gene have been described but currently lack transcript support. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RAB7B	Controls vesicular trafficking from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Acts as a negative regulator of TLR9 signaling and can suppress TLR9-triggered TNFA, IL6, and IFNB production in macrophages by promoting TLR9 lysosomal degradation. Also negatively regulates TLR4 signaling in macrophages by promoting lysosomal degradation of TLR4. Promotes megakaryocytic differentiation by increasing NF-kappa-B-dependent IL6 production and subsequently enhancing the association of STAT3 with GATA1. Not involved in the regulation of the EGF- and EGFR degradation pathway. 	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RRAS2	This gene encodes a member of the R-Ras subfamily of Ras-like small GTPases. The encoded protein associates with the plasma membrane and may function as a signal transducer. This protein may play an important role in activating signal transduction pathways that control cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are associated with the growth of certain tumors. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1 and 2. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TAX1BP1	This gene encodes a HTLV-1 tax1 binding protein. The encoded protein interacts with TNFAIP3, and inhibits TNF-induced apoptosis by mediating the TNFAIP3 anti-apoptotic activity. Degradation of this protein by caspase-3-like family proteins is associated with apoptosis induced by TNF. This protein may also have a role in the inhibition of inflammatory signaling pathways. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TBC1D15	This gene encodes a member of the Ras-like proteins in brain-GTPase activating protein superfamily that share a conserved Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16 domain. The encoded protein interacts with Ras-like protein in brain 5A and may function as a regulator of intracellular trafficking. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TBK1	The NF-kappa-B (NFKB) complex of proteins is inhibited by I-kappa-B (IKB) proteins, which inactivate NFKB by trapping it in the cytoplasm. Phosphorylation of serine residues on the IKB proteins by IKB kinases marks them for destruction via the ubiquitination pathway, thereby allowing activation and nuclear translocation of the NFKB complex. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to IKB kinases and can mediate NFKB activation in response to certain growth factors.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ULK1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in autophagy in response to starvation. Acts upstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase PIK3C3 to regulate the formation of autophagophores, the precursors of autophagosomes. Part of regulatory feedback loops in autophagy: acts both as a downstream effector and negative regulator of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) via interaction with RPTOR. Activated via phosphorylation by AMPK and also acts as a regulator of AMPK by mediating phosphorylation of AMPK subunits PRKAA1, PRKAB2 and PRKAG1, leading to negatively regulate AMPK activity. May phosphorylate ATG13/KIAA0652 and RPTOR; however such data need additional evidences. Plays a role early in neuronal differentiation and is required for granule cell axon formation. May also phosphorylate SESN2 and SQSTM1 to regulate autophagy (PubMed:25040165). 	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
USP15	This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin specific protease (USP) family of deubiquitinating enzymes. USP enzymes play critical roles in ubiquitin-dependent processes through polyubiquitin chain disassembly and hydrolysis of ubiquitin-substrate bonds. The encoded protein associates with the COP9 signalosome, and also plays a role in transforming growth factor beta signalling through deubiquitination of receptor-activated SMAD transcription factors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2. 	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
USP8	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the ubiquitin-specific processing protease family of proteins. The encoded protein is thought to regulate the morphology of the endosome by ubiquitination of proteins on this organelle and is involved in cargo sorting and membrane trafficking at the early endosome stage. This protein is required for the cell to enter the S phase of the cell cycle and also functions as a positive regulator in the Hedgehog signaling pathway in development. Pseudogenes of this gene are present on chromosomes 2 and 6. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGAM5	Displays phosphatase activity for serine/threonine residues, and, dephosphorylates and activates MAP3K5 kinase. Has apparently no phosphoglycerate mutase activity. May be regulator of mitochondrial dynamics. Substrate for a KEAP1-dependent ubiquitin ligase complex. Contributes to the repression of NFE2L2-dependent gene expression. Acts as a central mediator for programmed necrosis induced by TNF, by reactive oxygen species and by calcium ionophore. 	Mitophagy	present in both datasets 
PINK1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that localizes to mitochondria. It is thought to protect cells from stress-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Mutations in this gene cause one form of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Mitophagy	present in both datasets 
NBR1	The protein encoded by this gene was originally identified as an ovarian tumor antigen monitored in ovarian cancer. The encoded protein contains a B-box/coiled-coil motif, which is present in many genes with transformation potential. It functions as a specific autophagy receptor for the selective autophagic degradation of peroxisomes by forming intracellular inclusions with ubiquitylated autophagic substrates. This gene is located on a region of chromosome 17q21.1 that is in close proximity to the BRCA1 tumor suppressor gene. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy	present in both datasets 
ARG1	Arginase catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea. At least two isoforms of mammalian arginase exist (types I and II) which differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function. The type I isoform encoded by this gene, is a cytosolic enzyme and expressed predominantly in the liver as a component of the urea cycle. Inherited deficiency of this enzyme results in argininemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hyperammonemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011],	Nitrogen Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ASL	This gene encodes a member of the lyase 1 family. The encoded protein forms a cytosolic homotetramer and primarily catalyzes the reversible hydrolytic cleavage of argininosuccinate into arginine and fumarate, an essential step in the liver in detoxifying ammonia via the urea cycle. Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal recessive disorder argininosuccinic aciduria, or argininosuccinic acid lyase deficiency. A nontranscribed pseudogene is also located on the long arm of chromosome 22. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Nitrogen Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NAGS	Plays a role in the regulation of ureagenesis by producing variable amounts of N-acetylglutamate (NAG), thus modulating carbamoylphosphate synthase I (CPSI) activity	Nitrogen Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CPS1	Involved in the urea cycle of ureotelic animals where the enzyme plays an important role in removing excess ammonia from the cell	Nitrogen Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CA5B	 Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.  They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid.  They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization.  CA VB is localized in the mitochondria and shows the highest sequence similarity to the other mitochondrial CA, CA VA.  It has a wider tissue distribution than CA VA, which is restricted to the liver.  The differences in tissue distribution suggest that the two mitochondrial carbonic anhydrases evolved to assume different physiologic roles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Nitrogen Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ARG2	May play a role in the regulation of extra-urea cycle arginine metabolism and also in down-regulation of nitric oxide synthesis. Extrahepatic arginase functions to regulate L-arginine bioavailability to NO synthase. Since NO synthase is found in the penile corpus cavernosum smooth muscle, the clitoral corpus cavernosum and the vagina, arginase II plays a role in both male and female sexual arousal. It is therefore a potential target for the treatment of male and female sexual arousal disorders	Nitrogen Metabolism	present in both datasets 
OTC	This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix enzyme. Missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations in this enzyme lead to ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, which causes hyperammonemia. Since the gene for this enzyme maps close to that for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, it may play a role in that disease also. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Nitrogen Metabolism	present in both datasets 
DDAH1	This gene belongs to the dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH) gene family. The encoded enzyme plays a role in nitric oxide generation by regulating cellular concentrations of methylarginines, which in turn inhibit nitric oxide synthase activity. 	Nitrogen Metabolism	present in both datasets 
CA5A	 Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.  They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid.  They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization.  CA VA is localized in the mitochondria and expressed primarily in the liver.  It may play an important role in ureagenesis and gluconeogenesis.  CA5A gene maps to chromosome 16q24.3 and an unprocessed pseudogene has been assigned to 16p12-p11.2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Nitrogen Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ATP5D	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, delta subunit	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5A1	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, alpha subunit 1, cardiac muscle	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5E	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, epsilon subunit	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5B	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, beta polypeptide	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C6ORF57	chromosome 6 open reading frame 57	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5O	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, O subunit	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5I	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit E	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5J	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit F6	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C21ORF33	chromosome 21 open reading frame 33	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MINOS1	mitochondrial inner membrane organizing system 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C1QBP	complement component 1, q subcomponent binding protein	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HSDL2	hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase like 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5C1	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, gamma polypeptide 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PET112	PET112 homolog (yeast)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ADCK3	aarF domain containing kinase 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ALDH9A1	aldehyde dehydrogenase 9 family, member A1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
LACE1	lactation elevated 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATPIF1	ATPase inhibitory factor 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5F1	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit B1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MTERFD3	MTERF domain containing 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
LYRM5	LYR motif containing 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
COX2	cytochrome c oxidase subunit II	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP6	ATP synthase F0 subunit 6	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C6ORF136	chromosome 6 open reading frame 136	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SPRYD4	SPRY domain containing 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ADCK5	aarF domain containing kinase 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
VWA8	von Willebrand factor A domain containing 8	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PTGES2	prostaglandin E synthase 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
Mar-02	mitochondrial amidoxime reducing component 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SQRDL	sulfide quinone reductase-like (yeast)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5L	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit G	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5H	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit d	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MOCS1	molybdenum cofactor synthesis 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MUT	methylmalonyl CoA mutase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5G3	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit C3 (subunit 9)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
OXNAD1	oxidoreductase NAD-binding domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PYURF	PIGY upstream reading frame	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FDX1L	ferredoxin 1-like	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLC30A9	solute carrier family 30 (zinc transporter), member 9	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
EHHADH	enoyl-CoA, hydratase/3-hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FAM210A	family with sequence similarity 210, member A	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACOT13	acyl-CoA thioesterase 13	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GBAS	glioblastoma amplified sequence	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C19ORF70	chromosome 19 open reading frame 70	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HRSP12	heat-responsive protein 12	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SPR	sepiapterin reductase (7,8-dihydrobiopterin:NADP+ oxidoreductase)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ZADH2	zinc binding alcohol dehydrogenase domain containing 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GSTK1	glutathione S-transferase kappa 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ICT1	immature colon carcinoma transcript 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RNMTL1	RNA methyltransferase like 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TMEM14C	transmembrane protein 14C	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C7ORF55	chromosome 7 open reading frame 55	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PTRH1	peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase 1 homolog (S. cerevisiae)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACN9	ACN9 homolog (S. cerevisiae)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLMO2	slowmo homolog 2 (Drosophila)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GRHPR	glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
APOA1BP	apolipoprotein A-I binding protein	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SELO	selenoprotein O	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HSD17B4	hydroxysteroid (17-beta) dehydrogenase 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
OXLD1	oxidoreductase-like domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RMDN1	regulator of microtubule dynamics 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C6ORF203	chromosome 6 open reading frame 203	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FHIT	fragile histidine triad	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
LYRM2	LYR motif containing 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CCBL2	cysteine conjugate-beta lyase 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C2ORF47	chromosome 2 open reading frame 47	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HAO2	hydroxyacid oxidase 2 (long chain)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RDH14	retinol dehydrogenase 14 (all-trans/9-cis/11-cis)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C14ORF2	chromosome 14 open reading frame 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GLOD4	glyoxalase domain containing 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACAA1	acetyl-CoA acyltransferase 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CROT	carnitine O-octanoyltransferase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CECR5	cat eye syndrome chromosome region, candidate 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
BLOC1S1	biogenesis of lysosomal organelles complex-1, subunit 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C17ORF89	chromosome 17 open reading frame 89	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
XRCC6BP1	XRCC6 binding protein 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DCAKD	dephospho-CoA kinase domain containing	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5J2	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit F2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLC16A1	solute carrier family 16 (monocarboxylate transporter), member 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
LONP2	lon peptidase 2, peroxisomal	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PXMP2	peroxisomal membrane protein 2, 22kDa	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NGRN	neugrin, neurite outgrowth associated	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MACROD1	MACRO domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
COX1	cytochrome c oxidase subunit I	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SDR39U1	short chain dehydrogenase/reductase family 39U, member 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLMO1	slowmo homolog 1 (Drosophila)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLC25A17	solute carrier family 25 (mitochondrial carrier; peroxisomal membrane protein, 34kDa), member 17	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TOMM70A	translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 70 homolog A (S. cerevisiae)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ND5	NADH dehydrogenase, subunit 5 (complex I)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ND4	NADH dehydrogenase, subunit 4 (complex I)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ND2	MTND2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
KIAA0141	KIAA0141	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DHRS1	dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR family) member 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
STOM	stomatin	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
METTL5	methyltransferase like 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NUDT8	nudix (nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X)-type motif 8	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACLY	ATP citrate lyase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ABCD2	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family D (ALD), member 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FLAD1	flavin adenine dinucleotide synthetase 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C14ORF159	chromosome 14 open reading frame 159	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FAM136A	family with sequence similarity 136, member A	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CYTB	cytochrome b	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GUK1	guanylate kinase 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PHYH	phytanoyl-CoA 2-hydroxylase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TYSND1	trypsin domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HINT3	histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PXMP4	peroxisomal membrane protein 4, 24kDa	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GRSF1	G-rich RNA sequence binding factor 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RFK	riboflavin kinase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CHPT1	choline phosphotransferase 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP8	ATP synthase F0 subunit 8	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HTATIP2	HIV-1 Tat interactive protein 2, 30kDa	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
AKR7A2	aldo-keto reductase family 7, member A2 (aflatoxin aldehyde reductase)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
KIAA0100	KIAA0100	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
COX3	cytochrome c oxidase III	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DHRS7B	dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR family) member 7B	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C19ORF52	chromosome 19 open reading frame 52	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PNPO	pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate oxidase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PCBD2	pterin-4 alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase/dimerization cofactor of hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha (TCF1) 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PRDX6	peroxiredoxin 6	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GARS	glycyl-tRNA synthetase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DHRSX	dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR family) X-linked	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
LYRM9	LYR motif containing 9	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RAB24	RAB24, member RAS oncogene family	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CARKD	carbohydrate kinase domain containing	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ND3	NADH dehydrogenase, subunit 3 (complex I)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACCS	1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase homolog (Arabidopsis)(non-functional)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DNAJC28	DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog, subfamily C, member 28	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GSTO1	glutathione S-transferase omega 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TMEM205	transmembrane protein 205	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ABCA13	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family A (ABC1), member 13	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TUBB3	tubulin, beta 3 class III	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SDSL	serine dehydratase-like	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CCDC51	coiled-coil domain containing 51	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NRD1	nardilysin (N-arginine dibasic convertase)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
AHCYL1	adenosylhomocysteinase-like 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
Mar-01	mitochondrial amidoxime reducing component 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CBR3	carbonyl reductase 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MTERFD2	MTERF domain containing 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HEBP1	heme binding protein 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MTERFD1	MTERF domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FASN	fatty acid synthase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
THNSL1	threonine synthase-like 1 (S. cerevisiae)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLC37A4	solute carrier family 37 (glucose-6-phosphate transporter), member 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
IDI1	isopentenyl-diphosphate delta isomerase 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATXN2	ataxin 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ARF5	ADP-ribosylation factor 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CCDC109B	coiled-coil domain containing 109B	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C10ORF2	chromosome 10 open reading frame 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ALKBH3	alkB, alkylation repair homolog 3 (E. coli)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RPS18	ribosomal protein S18	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RDH11	retinol dehydrogenase 11 (all-trans/9-cis/11-cis)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HSPB7	heat shock 27kDa protein family, member 7 (cardiovascular)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
OSBPL1A	oxysterol binding protein-like 1A	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RECQL4	RecQ protein-like 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SHMT1	serine hydroxymethyltransferase 1 (soluble)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ISOC2	isochorismatase domain containing 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PPWD1	peptidylprolyl isomerase domain and WD repeat containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLC16A11	solute carrier family 16, member 11	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5G1	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit C1 (subunit 9)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ABCB9	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP), member 9	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ADCK4	aarF domain containing kinase 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TARS	threonyl-tRNA synthetase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FTH1	ferritin, heavy polypeptide 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TRMT1	tRNA methyltransferase 1 homolog (S. cerevisiae)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PSMA6	proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, alpha type, 6	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ADCK2	aarF domain containing kinase 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACOX3	acyl-CoA oxidase 3, pristanoyl	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RAB35	RAB35, member RAS oncogene family	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TSTD3	thiosulfate sulfurtransferase (rhodanese)-like domain containing 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FAM195A	family with sequence similarity 195, member A	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PACSIN2	protein kinase C and casein kinase substrate in neurons 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MLH1	mutL homolog 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
EEFSEC	eukaryotic elongation factor, selenocysteine-tRNA-specific	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
EPHX2	epoxide hydrolase 2, cytoplasmic	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DHCR24	24-dehydrocholesterol reductase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NUDT5	nudix (nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X)-type motif 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SERHL2	serine hydrolase-like 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
OCIAD2	OCIA domain containing 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NCEH1	neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PEX11B	peroxisomal biogenesis factor 11 beta	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
OBSCN	obscurin, cytoskeletal calmodulin and titin-interacting RhoGEF	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FABP1	fatty acid binding protein 1, liver	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PROSC	proline synthetase co-transcribed homolog (bacterial)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
STOML1	stomatin (EPB72)-like 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DBI	diazepam binding inhibitor (GABA receptor modulator, acyl-CoA binding protein)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PI4KA	phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase, catalytic, alpha	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TMBIM4	transmembrane BAX inhibitor motif containing 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C15ORF40	chromosome 15 open reading frame 40	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ABCA9	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family A (ABC1), member 9	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SCP2	sterol carrier protein 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NT5DC3	5'-nucleotidase domain containing 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PTPN4	protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 4 (megakaryocyte)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACOX1	acyl-CoA oxidase 1, palmitoyl	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
YBEY	ybeY metallopeptidase (putative)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HINT1	histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ARL2	ADP-ribosylation factor-like 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DCXR	dicarbonyl/L-xylulose reductase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NUDT6	nudix (nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X)-type motif 6	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5SL	ATP5S-like	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FTSJ2	FtsJ RNA methyltransferase homolog 2 (E. coli)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MGST3	microsomal glutathione S-transferase 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GTPBP6	GTP binding protein 6 (putative)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
OCIAD1	OCIA domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
METTL8	methyltransferase like 8	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5G2	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit C2 (subunit 9)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ND1	NADH dehydrogenase, subunit 1 (complex I)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PRDX2	peroxiredoxin 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
USMG5	up-regulated during skeletal muscle growth 5 homolog (mouse)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FAM213A	family with sequence similarity 213, member A	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RMDN3	regulator of microtubule dynamics 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5S	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit s (factor B)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C15ORF61	chromosome 15 open reading frame 61	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
IFI27	interferon, alpha-inducible protein 27	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MMACHC	methylmalonic aciduria (cobalamin deficiency) cblC type, with homocystinuria	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RPS15A	ribosomal protein S15a	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CRYZ	crystallin, zeta (quinone reductase)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
KRT5	keratin 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RPL10A	ribosomal protein L10a	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RPS14	ribosomal protein S14	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SCCPDH	saccharopine dehydrogenase (putative)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RARS	arginyl-tRNA synthetase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ND4L	NADH dehydrogenase, subunit 4L (complex I)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NME3	NME/NM23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
METTL15	methyltransferase like 15	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NT5DC2	5'-nucleotidase domain containing 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ACYP2	acylphosphatase 2, muscle type	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
COMTD1	catechol-O-methyltransferase domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C3ORF33	chromosome 3 open reading frame 33	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SND1	staphylococcal nuclease and tudor domain containing 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ANGEL2	angel homolog 2 (Drosophila)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CCT7	chaperonin containing TCP1, subunit 7 (eta)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PRDX4	peroxiredoxin 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
P4HB	prolyl 4-hydroxylase, beta polypeptide	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PAICS	phosphoribosylaminoimidazole carboxylase, phosphoribosylaminoimidazole succinocarboxamide synthetase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
HDHD3	haloacid dehalogenase-like hydrolase domain containing 3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
WBSCR16	Williams-Beuren syndrome chromosome region 16	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FAM185A	family with sequence similarity 185, member A	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TXNDC12	thioredoxin domain containing 12 (endoplasmic reticulum)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TDRKH	tudor and KH domain containing	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DUSP26	dual specificity phosphatase 26 (putative)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SLC30A6	solute carrier family 30 (zinc transporter), member 6	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MTERF	mitochondrial transcription termination factor	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
COMT	catechol-O-methyltransferase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SPATA20	spermatogenesis associated 20	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GNG5	guanine nucleotide binding protein (G protein), gamma 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CCDC127	coiled-coil domain containing 127	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CRY1	cryptochrome circadian clock 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
Sep-04	septin 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
EMC2	ER membrane protein complex subunit 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C20ORF24	chromosome 20 open reading frame 24	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SPTLC2	serine palmitoyltransferase, long chain base subunit 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
AGR2	anterior gradient 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NT5C	5', 3'-nucleotidase, cytosolic	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NCOA4	nuclear receptor coactivator 4	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DUS2	dihydrouridine synthase 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
KIAA0391	KIAA0391	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP5J2-PTCD1	ATP5J2-PTCD1 readthrough	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RPL35A	ribosomal protein L35a	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CDC25C	cell division cycle 25C	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RAB32	RAB32, member RAS oncogene family	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RAB11FIP5	RAB11 family interacting protein 5 (class I)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
GOLPH3	golgi phosphoprotein 3 (coat-protein)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PREPL	prolyl endopeptidase-like	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
CEP89	centrosomal protein 89kDa	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
NUCB2	nucleobindin 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
TCIRG1	T-cell, immune regulator 1, ATPase, H+ transporting, lysosomal V0 subunit A3	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
FKBP10	FK506 binding protein 10, 65 kDa	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RCN2	reticulocalbin 2, EF-hand calcium binding domain	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SETD9	SET domain containing 9	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
LAMC1	laminin, gamma 1 (formerly LAMB2)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PICK1	protein interacting with PRKCA 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PAK7	p21 protein (Cdc42/Rac)-activated kinase 7	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ND6	NADH dehydrogenase, subunit 6 (complex I)	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
DMPK	dystrophia myotonica-protein kinase	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PRSS35	protease, serine, 35	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PABPC5	poly(A) binding protein, cytoplasmic 5	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ATP10D	ATPase, class V, type 10D	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
STX17	syntaxin 17	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
PLGRKT	plasminogen receptor, C-terminal lysine transmembrane protein	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
RPL34	ribosomal protein L34	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SECISBP2	SECIS binding protein 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
MTCP1	mature T-cell proliferation 1	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C2ORF69	chromosome 2 open reading frame 69	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
C10ORF10	chromosome 10 open reading frame 10	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
SNAP29	synaptosomal-associated protein, 29kDa	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
ARMS2	age-related maculopathy susceptibility 2	Unknown MT process	mitoCarta | These genes are present in mitoCarta only
Mar-01	MARCH1 is a member of the MARCH family of membrane-bound E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19). MARCH proteins add ubiquitin (see MIM 191339) to target lysines in substrate proteins, thereby signaling their vesicular transport between membrane compartments. MARCH1 downregulates the surface expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules (see MIM 142880) and other glycoproteins by directing them to the late endosomal/lysosomal compartment (Bartee et al 2004 [PubMed 14722266]; Thibodeau et al 2008 [PubMed 18389477]; De Gassart et al 2008 [PubMed 18305173]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2010],	Nucleotide Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
Mar-02	MARCH2 is a member of the MARCH family of membrane-bound E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19). MARCH enzymes add ubiquitin (see MIM 191339) to target lysines in substrate proteins, thereby signaling their vesicular transport between membrane compartments. MARCH2 reduces surface accumulation of several glycoproteins and appears to regulate early endosome-to-trans-Golgi network (TGN) trafficking (Bartee et al 2004 [PubMed 14722266]; Nakamura et al 2005 [PubMed 15689499]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2010],	Nucleotide Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NME1	This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcript levels in highly metastatic cells. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) exists as a hexamer composed of 'A' (encoded by this gene) and 'B' (encoded by NME2) isoforms. Mutations in this gene have been identified in aggressive neuroblastomas. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Co-transcription of this gene and the neighboring downstream gene (NME2) generates naturally-occurring transcripts (NME1-NME2), which encodes a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product.	Nucleotide Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TYMS	Thymidylate synthase catalyzes the methylation of deoxyuridylate to deoxythymidylate using 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (methylene-THF) as a cofactor. This function maintains the dTMP (thymidine-5-prime monophosphate) pool critical for DNA replication and repair. The enzyme has been of interest as a target for cancer chemotherapeutic agents. It is considered to be the primary site of action for 5-fluorouracil, 5-fluoro-2-prime-deoxyuridine, and some folate analogs. Expression of this gene and that of a naturally occuring antisense transcript rTSalpha (GeneID:55556) vary inversely when cell-growth progresses from late-log to plateau phase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Nucleotide Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
AK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTP:ATP phosphotransferase that is found in the mitochondrial matrix. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010],	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AK4	Catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between ATP and AMP. May also be active with GTP (By similarity)	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
AK2	Adenylate kinases are involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate groups among adenine nucleotides. Three isozymes of adenylate kinase, namely 1, 2, and 3, have been identified in vertebrates; this gene encodes isozyme 2. Expression of these isozymes is tissue-specific and developmentally regulated. Isozyme 2 is localized in the mitochondrial intermembrane space and may play a role in apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of reticular dysgenesis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1 and 2.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010],	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
NUDT13	similarity:Contains 1 nudix hydrolase domaintissue specificity:Highly expressed in metastasis-suppressed chromosome 6 melanoma hybrids	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
DUT	This enzyme is involved in nucleotide metabolism: it produces dUMP, the immediate precursor of thymidine nucleotides and it decreases the intracellular concentration of dUTP so that uracil cannot be incorporated into DNA	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
NME4	Major role in the synthesis of nucleoside triphosphates other than ATP (By similarity)	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
DTYMK	catalytic activity:ATP + dTMP = ADP + dTDPfunction:Catalyzes the conversion of dTMP to dTDPpathway:Pyrimidine metabolism; dTTP biosynthesissimilarity:Belongs to the thymidylate kinase family	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
NUDT9	Hydrolyzes ADP-ribose (ADPR) to AMP and ribose 5'- phosphate	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
DHODH	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth enzymatic step, the ubiquinone-mediated oxidation of dihydroorotate to orotate, in de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. This protein is a mitochondrial protein located on the outer surface of the inner mitochondrial membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
NME6	Major role in the synthesis of nucleoside triphosphates other than ATP. The ATP gamma phosphate is transferred to the NDP beta phosphate via a ping-pong mechanism, using a phosphorylated active-site intermediate. Inhibitor of p53-induced apoptosis	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ATIC	This gene encodes a bifunctional protein that catalyzes the last two steps of the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. The N-terminal domain has phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxamide formyltransferase activity, and the C-terminal domain has IMP cyclohydrolase activity. A mutation in this gene results in AICA-ribosiduria. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009],	Nucleotide Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ATP5F1A	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, using an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the catalytic core. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the different isoforms have been identified. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 9, 2, and 16. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5F1B	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the beta subunit of the catalytic core. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5F1C	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the gamma subunit of the catalytic core. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. This gene also has a pseudogene on chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5F1D	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the delta subunit of the catalytic core. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5F1E	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the epsilon subunit of the catalytic core. Two pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 4 and 13. Read-through transcripts that include exons from this gene are expressed from the upstream gene SLMO2.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5IF1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial ATPase inhibitor. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MC1	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene is one of three genes that encode subunit c of the proton channel. Each of the three genes have distinct mitochondrial import sequences but encode the identical mature protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MC2	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and single representatives of the gamma, delta, and epsilon subunits. The proton channel likely has nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). There are three separate genes which encode subunit c of the proton channel and they specify precursors with different import sequences but identical mature proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is one of three precursors of subunit c. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2018]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MC3	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene is one of three genes that encode subunit c of the proton channel. Each of the three genes have distinct mitochondrial import sequences but encode the identical mature protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different proteins have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MD	part of the mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase complex	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5ME	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the e subunit of the Fo complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MF	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of five different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and single representatives of the gamma, delta, and epsilon subunits. The proton channel likely has nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the f subunit of the Fo complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. Naturally occurring read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream pentatricopeptide repeat domain 1 (PTCD1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MG	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the g subunit of the Fo complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MGL	contributes_to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5MPL	part of the mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase complex	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5PB	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the b subunit of the proton channel. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5PD	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the d subunit of the Fo complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. In addition, three pseudogenes are located on chromosomes 9, 12 and 15. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5PF	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo complex has nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the F6 subunit of the Fo complex. The F6 subunit is required for F1 and Fo interactions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. This gene has 1 or more pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP5PO	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the F-type ATPase found in the mitochondrial matrix. F-type ATPases are composed of a catalytic core and a membrane proton channel. The encoded protein appears to be part of the connector linking these two components and may be involved in transmission of conformational changes or proton conductance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP6V1E1	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase essential for assembly or catalytic function. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
COQ8A	May be a chaperone-like protein essential for the proper conformation and functioning of protein complexes in the respiratory chain	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
COQ8B	The function of this protein is not yet clear. It is not known if it has protein kinase activity and what type of substrate it would phosphorylate (Ser, Thr or Tyr)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
COX7B2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
COX8BP	Cytochrome c oxidase is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that couples the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and contributes to a proton electrochemical gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The complex consists of 13 mitochondrial- and nuclear-encoded subunits. In addition a number of cytochrome c oxidase subunit pseudogenes have been found. This gene represents a subunit which has been inactivated by mutation and is nonfunctional in humans.	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DMAC1	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DMAC2	contributes_to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity, mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DMAC2L	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. This gene encodes the subunit s, also known as factor B, of the proton channel. This subunit is necessary for the energy transduction activity of the ATP synthase complexes. 	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DONSON	This gene lies downstream of the SON gene and spans 10 kb on chromosome 21. The function of this gene is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ETFRF1	similarity:Belongs to the complex I LYR family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FMC1	sequence caution:Translation N-terminally shortenedsimilarity:Belongs to the UPF0562 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GPD1	This gene encodes a member of the NAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism by catalyzing the reversible conversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) and reduced nicotine adenine dinucleotide (NADH) to glycerol-3-phosphate (G3P) and NAD+. The encoded cytosolic protein and mitochondrial glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase also form a glycerol phosphate shuttle that facilitates the transfer of reducing equivalents from the cytosol to mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are a cause of transient infantile hypertriglyceridemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NDUFAF8	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NIPSNAP2	This gene encodes a member of the NipSnap family of proteins that may be involved in vesicular transport. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and plays a role in oxidative phosphorylation. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SDHAF3	similarity:Belongs to the ACN9 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SDHAF4	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0369 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
UQCC3	Complex III is a mitochondrial inner membrane protein complex that transfers electrons from ubiquinol to cytochrome c. This gene encodes a protein that functions in complex III assembly. Mutations in this gene result in Mitochondrial complex III deficiency, nuclear type 9. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CYC1	This is the heme-containing component of the cytochrome b-c1 complex, which accepts electrons from Rieske protein and transfers electrons to cytochrome c in the mitochondrial respiratory chain	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SDHB	Iron-sulfur protein (IP) subunit of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that is involved in complex II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SDHA	Flavoprotein (FP) subunit of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that is involved in complex II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCRC1	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This protein may mediate formation of the complex between cytochromes c and c1	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX5A	This is the heme A-containing chain of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCRFS1	Component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is a respiratory chain that generates an electrochemical potential coupled to ATP synthesisThe transit peptide of the Rieske protein seems to form part of the bc1 complex and is considered to be the subunit 11/IX of that complex (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCRC2	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The core protein 2 is required for the assembly of the complex	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SDHD	Membrane-anchoring subunit of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that is involved in complex II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCRQ	This gene encodes a ubiquinone-binding protein of low molecular mass. This protein is a small core-associated protein and a subunit of ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex III, which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS1	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity). This is the largest subunit of complex I and it is a component of the iron-sulfur (IP) fragment of the enzyme. It may form part of the active site crevice where NADH is oxidized	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCR10	UCRC is a subunit of mitochondrial complex III (ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase; EC 1.10.2.2), which forms the middle segment of the respiratory chain of the inner mitochondrial membrane (Schagger et al 1995 [PubMed 8592474]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX11	Exerts its effect at some terminal stage of cytochrome c oxidase synthesis, probably by being involved in the insertion of the copper B into subunit I (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
ETFDH	This gene encodes a component of the electron-transfer system in mitochondria and is essential for electron transfer from a number of mitochondrial flavin-containing dehydrogenases to the main respiratory chain. Mutations in this gene are associated with glutaric acidemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCRH	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This protein may mediate formation of the complex between cytochromes c and c1	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
HIGD2A	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the cytochrome c oxidase complex (complex IV), which is the terminal enzyme in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The encoded protein is an inner mitochondrial membrane protein and is a functional ortholog of the yeast respiratory supercomplex factor 1 (Rcf1). In mouse, the orthologous protein enhances cell survival under conditions of hypoxia. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX6A1	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX15	May be involved in the biosynthesis of heme A	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
ETFA	ETFA participates in catalyzing the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation. It shuttles electrons between primary flavoprotein dehydrogenases and the membrane-bound electron transfer flavoprotein ubiquinone oxidoreductase. Defects in electron-transfer-flavoprotein have been implicated in type II glutaricaciduria in which multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiencies result in large excretion of glutaric, lactic, ethylmalonic, butyric, isobutyric, 2-methyl-butyric, and isovaleric acids. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS7	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFV2	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB8	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS8	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity). May donate electrons to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFV1	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS2	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SURF1	This gene encodes a protein localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane and thought to be involved in the biogenesis of the cytochrome c oxidase complex. The protein is a member of the SURF1 family, which includes the related yeast protein SHY1 and rickettsial protein RP733. The gene is located in the surfeit gene cluster, a group of very tightly linked genes that do not share sequence similarity, where it shares a bidirectional promoter with SURF2 on the opposite strand. Defects in this gene are a cause of Leigh syndrome, a severe neurological disorder that is commonly associated with systemic cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SDHC	Mono-heme cytochrome b. May act as a mediator of low potential couples in an electron flow through cardiac complex II. Is involved in system II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain which is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB5	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SDHAF2	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein needed for the flavination of a succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit required for activity of the complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with paraganglioma.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COQ10A	similarity:Belongs to the COQ10 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB9	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX6C	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA6	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX17	Copper chaperone for cytochrome c oxidase (COX). Binds two copper ions and deliver them to the Cu(A) site of COX (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX6B1	Connects the two COX monomers into the physiological dimeric form (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS4	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCC1	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is structurally similar to the mouse basic fibroblast growth factor repressed ZIC-binding protein. In mouse this protein may be involved in fibroblast growth factor regulated growth control. In humans, polymorphisms in this gene are associated with variation in human height and osteoarthritis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
ATPAF2	May play a role in the assembly of the F1 component of the mitochondrial ATP synthase (ATPase)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA9	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COA6	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 6B family. The encoded protein associates with cytochrome c oxidase may act has an cytochrome c oxidase mitochondrial respiratory complex VI assembly factor. Mutations in this gene may be associated with fatal infantile cardiomyopathy. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
RTN4IP1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that interacts with reticulon 4, which is a potent inhibitor of regeneration following spinal cord injury. This interaction may be important for reticulon-induced inhibition of neurite growth. Mutations in this gene can cause optic atrophy 10, with or without ataxia, mental retardation, and seizures. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAF4	Plays a role in complex I activity. May be a complex I assembly factor. May be involved in cell proliferation and survival of hormone-dependent tumor cells. May be a regulator of breast tumor cell invasion	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SDHAF1	The succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) complex (or complex II) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is composed of 4 individual subunits. The protein encoded by this gene resides in the mitochondria, and is essential for SDH assembly, but does not physically associate with the complex in vivo. Mutations in this gene are associated with SDH-defective infantile leukoencephalopathy (mitochondrial complex II deficiency).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAF5	Putative methyltransferase involved in mitochondrial complex I assembly at early stages	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS6	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX4I1	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX5B	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB6	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA5	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
BCS1L	This gene encodes a homolog of the S. cerevisiae bcs1 protein which is involved in the assembly of complex III of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The encoded protein does not contain a mitochondrial targeting sequence but experimental studies confirm that it is imported into mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency and the GRACILE syndrome. Several alternatively spliced transcripts encoding two different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
CMC1	Required for mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly and respiration. Binds copper. May be involved in copper trafficking and distribution to COX and SOD1 (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAF1	This gene encodes a complex I assembly factor protein. Complex I (NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) in the first step of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, resulting in the translocation of protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein is required for assembly of complex I, and mutations in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB10	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA2	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS5	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
CYCS	Electron carrier protein. The oxidized form of the cytochrome c heme group can accept an electron from the heme group of the cytochrome c1 subunit of cytochrome reductase. Cytochrome c then transfers this electron to the cytochrome oxidase complex, the final protein carrier in the mitochondrial electron-transport chainPlays a role in apoptosis. Suppression of the anti- apoptotic members or activation of the pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family leads to altered mitochondrial membrane permeability resulting in release of cytochrome c into the cytosol. Binding of cytochrome c to Apaf-1 triggers the activation of caspase-9, which then accelerates apoptosis by activating other caspases	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
LYRM7	Inner mitochondrial membrane complex III (CIII) is the main enzyme complex in the mitochondrial respiratory chain, and Rieske Fe-S protein (UQCRFS1) is the last catalytic subunit added to the complex. The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial matrix protein that stabilizes UQCRFS1 and chaperones it to the CIII complex. Defects in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial complex III deficiency, nuclear type 8. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX7A2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
HCCS	Links covalently the heme group to the apoprotein of cytochrome c (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA7	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB2	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
ETFB	This gene encodes electron-transfer-flavoprotein, beta polypeptide, which shuttles electrons between primary flavoprotein dehydrogenases involved in mitochondrial fatty acid and amino acid catabolism and the membrane-bound electron transfer flavoprotein ubiquinone oxidoreductase. The gene deficiencies have been implicated in type II glutaricaciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX7C	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COQ10B	similarity:Belongs to the COQ10 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX7A1	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX14	This gene encodes a small single-pass transmembrane protein that localizes to mitochondria. This protein may play a role in coordinating the early steps of cytochrome c oxidase (COX; also known as complex IV) subunit assembly and, in particular, the synthesis and assembly of the COX I subunit of the holoenzyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA12	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
GPD2	The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of glycerol-3-phosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate, using FAD as a cofactor. Along with GDP1, the encoded protein constitutes the glycerol phosphate shuttle, which reoxidizes NADH formed during glycolysis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA10	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFC2	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA8	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB11	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFV3	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
CISD1	This gene encodes a protein with a CDGSH iron-sulfur domain and has been shown to bind a redox-active [2Fe-2S] cluster. The encoded protein has been localized to the outer membrane of mitochondria and is thought to play a role in regulation of oxidation. Genes encoding similar proteins are located on chromosomes 4 and 17, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SCO1	Thought to play a role in cellular copper homeostasis, mitochondrial redox signaling or insertion of copper into the active site of COX	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCRB	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This component is involved in redox-linked proton pumping	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX6A2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAB1	Carrier of the growing fatty acid chain in fatty acid biosynthesis in mitochondria. Accessory and non-catalytic subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), which functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COA5	This gene encodes an ortholog of yeast Pet191, which in yeast is a subunit of a large oligomeric complex associated with the mitochondrial inner membrane, and required for the assembly of the cytochrome c oxidase complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency, a disorder of the mitochondrial respiratory chain with heterogeneous clinical manifestations, ranging from isolated myopathy to a severe disease affecting several tissues and organs. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFS3	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX16	miscellaneous:No COX16 mutations have been detected in patients with cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiencysimilarity:Belongs to the COX16 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB7	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
SCO2	Acts as a copper chaperone, transporting copper to the Cu(A) site on the cytochrome c oxidase subunit II (COX2)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX8A	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX10	Converts protoheme IX and farnesyl diphosphate to heme O (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
TMEM70	This gene likely encodes a mitochondrial membrane protein. The encoded protein may play a role in biogenesis of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mutations in this gene have been associated with neonatal mitochondrial encephalocardiomyopathy due to ATP synthase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFC1	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA3	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAF6	Required for the function of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB3	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
PTCD2	caution:It is uncertain whether Met-1 or Met-6 is the initiatorsimilarity:Belongs to the PTCD2 familysimilarity:Contains 1 PPR (pentatricopeptide) repeat	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA13	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone. Involved in the interferon/all-trans-retinoic acid (IFN/RA) induced cell death. This apoptotic activity is inhibited by interaction with viral IRF1. Prevents the transactivation of STAT3 target genes. May play a role in CARD15-mediated innate mucosal responses and serve to regulate intestinal epithelial cell responses to microbes	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA4	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAF7	This gene encodes an assembly factor protein which helps in the assembly and stabilization of Complex I, a large multi-subunit enzyme in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Complex I is involved in several physiological activities in the cell, including metabolite transport and ATP synthesis. The encoded protein is a methyltransferase which methylates Arg85 of a subunit of Complex I in the early stages of its assembly. A pseudogene related to this gene is located on chromosome 8. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX7B	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA11	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COA3	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome c oxidase assembly factor family. Studies of a related gene in fly suggest that the encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and is essential for cytochrome c oxidase function. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NUBPL	This gene encodes a member of the Mrp/NBP35 ATP-binding proteins family. The encoded protein is required for the assembly of the respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I), an oligomeric enzymatic complex located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Mutations in this gene cause mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
TBRG4	May play a role in cell cycle progression	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
HIGD1A	induction:By hypoxiasimilarity:Contains 1 HIG1 domain	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
OXA1L	Required for the insertion of integral membrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Essential for the activity and assembly of cytochrome oxidase	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
CISD3	CISD3 is a member of the CDGSH domain-containing family, which may play a role in regulating electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation (Wiley et al 2007 [PubMed 17376863]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX6B2	Connects the two COX monomers into the physiological dimeric form (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX19	May be required for the assembly of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX4I2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
ATPAF1	May play an essential role for the assembly of the mitochondrial F1-F0 complex (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX18	Required for the insertion of integral membrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Essential for the activity and assembly of cytochrome c oxidase. Plays a central role in the translocation and export of the C-terminal part of the COX2 protein into the mitochondrial intermembrane space	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX8C	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
TTC19	This gene encodes a protein with a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain containing several TPRs of about 34 aa each. These repeats are found in a variety of organisms including bacteria, fungi and plants, and are involved in a variety of functions including protein-protein interactions. This protein is embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane and is involved in the formation of the mitochondrial respiratory chain III. It has also been suggested that this protein plays a role in cytokinesis. Mutations in this gene cause mitochondrial complex III deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB4	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCR11	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chainThis protein may be closely linked to the iron-sulfur protein in the complex and function as an iron-sulfur protein binding factor	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFA1	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
D2HGDH	Catalyzes the oxidation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAF2	NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) in the first step of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, resulting in the translocation of protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This gene encodes a complex I assembly factor. Mutations in this gene cause progressive encephalopathy resulting from mitochondrial complex I deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
ECSIT	function:Adapter protein of the Toll-like and IL-1 receptor signaling pathway that is involved in the activation of NF-kappa-B via MAP3K1. Promotes proteolytic activation of MAP3K1. Involved in the BMP signaling pathway. Required for normal embryonic development (By similarity). Required for efficient assembly of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductasesimilarity:Belongs to the ECSIT familysubunit:Interacts with MAP3K1, SMAD4 and TRAF6. Interacts with SMAD1 only after BMP4-treatment (By similarity). Interacts with NDUFAF1	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
ADCK1	The function of this protein is not yet clear. It is not known if it has protein kinase activity and what type of substrate it would phosphorylate (Ser, Thr or Tyr)	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NIPSNAP1	This gene encodes a member of the NipSnap family of proteins that may be involved in vesicular transport. A similar protein in mice inhibits the calcium channel TRPV6, and is also localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it may play a role in mitochondrial DNA maintenance. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 17. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COA4	induction:Up-regulated by estrogensimilarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
TMEM126B	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM126 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
CISD2	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein that localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The encoded protein binds an iron/sulfur cluster and may be involved in calcium homeostasis. Defects in this gene are a cause of Wolfram syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX20	This gene encodes a protein that plays a role in the assembly of cytochrome C oxidase, an important component of the respiratory pathway. It contains two transmembrane helices and localizes to the mitochondrial membrane. Mutations in this gene can cause mitochondrial complex IV deficiency, which results in ataxia and muscle hypotonia. There are multiple pseudogenes for this gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COX7A2L	May be a regulatory subunit of cytochrome c oxidase that mediates the higher level of energy production in target cells by estrogen	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
TSTD1	Possible role in tumorgenesis	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFAF3	This gene encodes a mitochondrial complex I assembly protein that interacts with complex I subunits. Mutations in this gene cause mitochondrial complex I deficiency, a fatal neonatal disorder of the oxidative phosphorylation system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
TMEM186	This gene encodes a potential transmembrane protein. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
FOXRED1	This gene encodes a protein that contains a FAD-dependent oxidoreductase domain. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondria and may function as a chaperone protein required for the function of mitochondrial complex I. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
PET117	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COA7	similarity:Belongs to the hcp beta-lactamase familysimilarity:Contains 5 Sel1-like repeats	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
C15ORF48	This gene was first identified in a study of human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma tissues. Levels of both the message and protein are reduced in carcinoma samples. In adult human tissues, this gene is expressed in the the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, colon and placenta. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
COA1		Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
UQCC2	This gene encodes a nucleoid protein localized to the mitochondria inner membrane. The encoded protein affects regulation of insulin secretion, mitochondrial ATP production, and myogenesis through modulation of mitochondrial respiratory chain activity. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
NDUFB1	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation	present in both datasets 
MT-ATP6	contributes_to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism, mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled proton transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ATP8	contributes_to ATPase activity, mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled proton transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-CO1	contributes_to cytochrome-c oxidase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-CO2	contributes_to cytochrome-c oxidase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-CO3	contributes_to cytochrome-c oxidase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-CYB	ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol to cytochrome c	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ND1	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ND2	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ND3	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ND4	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ND4L	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ND5	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-ND6	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (mt)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
G6PD	Produces pentose sugars for nucleic acid synthesis and main producer of NADPH reducing power	Pentose Phosphate Pathway	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGD	6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase is the second dehydrogenase in the pentose phosphate shunt. Deficiency of this enzyme is generally asymptomatic, and the inheritance of this disorder is autosomal dominant. Hemolysis results from combined deficiency of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconolactonase suggesting a synergism of the two enzymopathies. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015],	Pentose Phosphate Pathway	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PGLS	Hydrolysis of 6-phosphogluconolactone to 6- phosphogluconate	Pentose Phosphate Pathway	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RPE	catalytic activity:D-ribulose 5-phosphate = D-xylulose 5-phosphatesimilarity:Belongs to the ribulose-phosphate 3-epimerase family	Pentose Phosphate Pathway	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TALDO1	Transaldolase is important for the balance of metabolites in the pentose-phosphate pathway	Pentose Phosphate Pathway	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TKT	This gene encodes a thiamine-dependent enzyme which plays a role in the channeling of excess sugar phosphates to glycolysis in the pentose phosphate pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012],	Pentose Phosphate Pathway	present in both datasets 
RPIA	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme, which catalyzes the reversible conversion between ribose-5-phosphate and ribulose-5-phosphate in the pentose-phosphate pathway. This gene is highly conserved in most organisms. The enzyme plays an essential role in the carbohydrate metabolism. Mutations in this gene cause ribose 5-phosphate isomerase deficiency. A pseudogene is found on chromosome 18. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Pentose Phosphate Pathway	present in both datasets 
AFG1L	This gene encodes a mitochondrial integral membrane protein that plays a role in mitochondrial protein homeostasis. The protein contains a P-loop motif and a five-domain structure that is conserved in fly, yeast, and bacteria. It functions to mediate the degradation of nuclear-encoded complex IV subunits. Two conserved estrogen receptor binding sites are located within 2.5 kb of this gene. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with bipolar disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATP23	The protein encoded by this gene is amplified in glioblastomas and interacts with the DNA binding subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase. This kinase is involved in double-strand break repair (DSB), and higher expression of the encoded protein increases the efficiency of DSB. In addition, comparison to orthologous proteins strongly suggests that this protein is a metalloprotease important in the biosynthesis of mitochondrial ATPase. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DNAJA1	This gene encodes a member of the DnaJ family of proteins, which act as heat shock protein 70 cochaperones. Heat shock proteins facilitate protein folding, trafficking, prevention of aggregation, and proteolytic degradation. Members of this family are characterized by a highly conserved N-terminal J domain, a glycine/phenylalanine-rich region, four CxxCxGxG zinc finger repeats, and a C-terminal substrate-binding domain. The J domain mediates the interaction with heat shock protein 70 to recruit substrates and regulate ATP hydrolysis activity. In humans, this gene has been implicated in positive regulation of virus replication through co-option by the influenza A virus. Several pseudogenes of this gene are found on other chromosomes.	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HSPA1A	In cooperation with other chaperones, Hsp70s stabilize preexistent proteins against aggregation and mediate the folding of newly translated polypeptides in the cytosol as well as within organelles. These chaperones participate in all these processes through their ability to recognize nonnative conformations of other proteins. They bind extended peptide segments with a net hydrophobic character exposed by polypeptides during translation and membrane translocation, or following stress-induced damage. In case of rotavirus A infection, serves as a post-attachment receptor for the virus to facilitate entry into the cell	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HSPA1B	In cooperation with other chaperones, Hsp70s stabilize preexistent proteins against aggregation and mediate the folding of newly translated polypeptides in the cytosol as well as within organelles. These chaperones participate in all these processes through their ability to recognize nonnative conformations of other proteins. They bind extended peptide segments with a net hydrophobic character exposed by polypeptides during translation and membrane translocation, or following stress-induced damage. In case of rotavirus A infection, serves as a post-attachment receptor for the virus to facilitate entry into the cell	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NRDC	Cleaves peptide substrates on the N-terminus of arginine residues in dibasic pairs	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RNF185	similarity:Contains 1 RING-type zinc finger	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RNF5	Has E2-dependent E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. May function together with E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes UBE2D1/UBCH5A and UBE2D2/UBC4. Mediates ubiquitination of PXN/paxillin and Salmonella type III secreted protein sopA. May be involved in regulation of cell motility and localization of PXN/paxillin	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
UBA1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the first step in ubiquitin conjugation to mark cellular proteins for degradation. This gene complements an X-linked mouse temperature-sensitive defect in DNA synthesis, and thus may function in DNA repair. It is part of a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Protein Stability & Degradation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LONP1	Required for intramitochondrial proteolysis. Catalyzes the initial steps of protein degradation. Hydrolyzes ATP and degrades protein and peptide substrates in an ATP-dependent manner. Binds to single-stranded but not to double-stranded DNA (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
CLPP	Clp cleaves peptides in various proteins in a process that requires ATP hydrolysis. Clp may be responsible for a fairly general and central housekeeping function rather than for the degradation of specific substrates	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
CLPX	ATP-dependent specificity component of the Clp protease. It directs the protease to specific substrates. Can perform chaperone functions in the absence of clpP (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
PITRM1	cofactor:Binds 1 zinc ion per subunitfunction:ATP-independent protease that degrades mitochondrial transit peptides after their cleavage. Also degrades other unstructured peptides. Specific for peptides in the range of 10 to 65 residues. Able to degrade amyloid beta A4 (APP) protein when it accumulates in mitochondrion, suggesting a link with Alzheimer disease. Shows a preference for cleavage after small polar residues and before basic residues, but without any positional preferencePTM:The disulfide bond may lock the enzyme in a closed conformation under oxidized conditions, suggesting that it may participate in redox regulation of the enzymesimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M16 family. PreP subfamilysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Widely expressed. Expressed at higher level in muscle and heart compared to brain, pancreas, liver, lung and placenta	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
HSPD1	Implicated in mitochondrial protein import and macromolecular assembly. May facilitate the correct folding of imported proteins. May also prevent misfolding and promote the refolding and proper assembly of unfolded polypeptides generated under stress conditions in the mitochondrial matrix	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
CLPB	May function as a regulatory ATPase and be related to secretion/protein trafficking process	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
DNAJA3	This gene encodes a member of the DNAJ/Hsp40 protein family. DNAJ/Hsp40 proteins stimulate the ATPase activity of Hsp70 chaperones and play critical roles in protein folding, degradation, and multimeric complex assembly. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and mediates several cellular processes including proliferation, survival and apoptotic signal transduction. The encoded protein also plays a critical role in tumor suppression through interactions with oncogenic proteins including ErbB2 and the p53 tumor suppressor protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011],	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
DNAJC11	similarity:Belongs to the DNAJC11 familysimilarity:Contains 1 J domain	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
ATAD1	similarity:Belongs to the AAA ATPase family	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
XPNPEP3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of X-pro-aminopeptidases that utilize a metal cofactor, and remove the N-terminal amino acid from peptides with a proline residue in the penultimate position. This protein has been shown to localize to the mitochondria of renal cells, and have a role in ciliary function. Mutations in this gene are associated with nephronophthisis-like nephropathy-1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene, however, expression of some of these isoforms in vivo is not known.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
NLN	Hydrolyzes oligopeptides such as neurotensin, bradykinin and dynorphin A (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
DNAJC4	sequence caution:Several sequence rearrangementssimilarity:Contains 1 J domain	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
DNAJC30	This intronless gene encodes a member of the DNAJ molecular chaperone homology domain-containing protein family. This gene is deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
TMEM177	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM177 family	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
PET100	Mitochondrial complex IV, or cytochrome c oxidase, is a large transmembrane protein complex that is part of the respiratory electron transport chain of mitochondria. The small protein encoded by this gene plays a role in the biogenesis of mitochondrial complex IV. This protein localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane and is exposed to the intermembrane space. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014],	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
MUL1	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that plays a role in the control of mitochondrial morphology. Promotes mitochondrial fragmentation and influences mitochondrial localization. Inhibits cell growth. When overexpressed, activates JNK through MAP3K7/TAK1 and induces caspase-dependent apoptosis. E3 ubiquitin ligases accept ubiquitin from an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme in the form of a thioester and then directly transfer the ubiquitin to targeted substrates	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
FKBP8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. Unlike the other members of the family, this encoded protein does not seem to have PPIase/rotamase activity. It may have a role in neurons associated with memory function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
FBXL4	This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family, which are characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. F-box proteins constitute one subunit of modular E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes, called SCF complexes, which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box domain mediates protein-protein interactions and binds directly to S-phase kinase-associated protein 1. In addition to an F-box domain, the encoded protein contains at least 9 tandem leucine-rich repeats. The ubiquitin ligase complex containing the encoded protein may function in cell-cycle control by regulating levels of lysine-specific demethylase 4A. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Protein Stability & Degradation	present in both datasets 
ACSS2	Activates acetate so that it can be used for lipid synthesis or for energy generation	Pyruvate Metabolism	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PDHA1	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDHB	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDK4	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
DLAT	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MPC2	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0041 (0-44) family	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ADHFE1	The ADHFE1 gene encodes hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase (EC 1.1.99.24), which is responsible for the oxidation of 4-hydroxybutyrate in mammalian tissues (Kardon et al 2006 [PubMed 16616524]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDK2	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDK1	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
L2HGDH	This gene encodes L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, a FAD-dependent enzyme that oxidizes L-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate in a variety of mammalian tissues. Mutations in this gene cause L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a rare autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder resulting in moderate to severe mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDK3	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ME3	Malic enzyme catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of malate to pyruvate using either NAD+ or NADP+ as a cofactor. Mammalian tissues contain 3 distinct isoforms of malic enzyme: a cytosolic NADP(+)-dependent isoform, a mitochondrial NADP(+)-dependent isoform, and a mitochondrial NAD(+)-dependent isoform. This gene encodes a mitochondrial NADP(+)-dependent isoform. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
HAGH	Thiolesterase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of S-D- lactoyl-glutathione to form glutathione and D-lactic acid	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MPC1L	mitochondrial pyruvate transmembrane transport	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ME2	This gene encodes a mitochondrial NAD-dependent malic enzyme, a homotetrameric protein, that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of malate to pyruvate. It had previously been weakly linked to a syndrome known as Friedreich ataxia that has since been shown to be the result of mutation in a completely different gene. Certain single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotypes of this gene have been shown to increase the risk for idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
MPC1	The protein encoded by this gene is part of an MPC1/MPC2 heterodimer that is responsible for transporting pyruvate into mitochondria. The encoded protein is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Defects in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial pyruvate carrier deficiency. Several transcript variants, some protein coding and one non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDP1	Catalyzes the dephosphorylation and concomitant reactivation of the alpha subunit of the E1 component of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDPR	Decreases the sensitivity of PDP1 to magnesium ions, and this inhibition is reversed by the polyamine spermine (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ALDH7A1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of subfamily 7 in the aldehyde dehydrogenase gene family. These enzymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This particular member has homology to a previously described protein from the green garden pea, the 26g pea turgor protein. It is also involved in lysine catabolism that is known to occur in the mitochondrial matrix. Recent reports show that this protein is found both in the cytosol and the mitochondria, and the two forms likely arise from the use of alternative translation initiation sites. An additional variant encoding a different isoform has also been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene are associated with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. Several related pseudogenes have also been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDHA2	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
LDHD	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the D-isomer specific 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase family. The similar protein in yeast has both D-lactate and D-glycerate dehydrogenase activities. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
HOGA1	The authors of PMID:20797690 cloned this gene while searching for genes in a region of chromosome 10 linked to primary hyperoxalurea type III. They noted that even though the encoded protein has been described as a mitochondrial dihydrodipicolinate synthase-like enzyme, it shares little homology with E. coli dihydrodipicolinate synthase (Dhdps), particularly in the putative substrate-binding region. Moreover, neither lysine biosynthesis nor sialic acid metabolism, for which Dhdps is responsible, occurs in vertebrate mitochondria. They propose that this gene encodes mitochondrial 4-hydroxyl-2-oxoglutarate aldolase (EC 4.1.3.16), which catalyzes the final step in the metabolic pathway of hydroxyproline, releasing glyoxylate and pyruvate. This gene is predominantly expressed in the liver and kidney, and mutations in this gene are found in patients with primary hyperoxalurea type III. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ME1	This gene encodes a cytosolic, NADP-dependent enzyme that generates NADPH for fatty acid biosynthesis. The activity of this enzyme, the reversible oxidative decarboxylation of malate, links the glycolytic and citric acid cycles. The regulation of expression for this gene is complex. Increased expression can result from elevated levels of thyroid hormones or by higher proportions of carbohydrates in the diet. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PCK2	Catalyzes the conversion of oxaloacetate (OAA) to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), the rate-limiting step in the metabolic pathway that produces glucose from lactate and other precursors derived from the citric acid cycle (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
ACSS1	Converts acetate to acetyl-CoA so that it can be used for oxidation through the tricarboxylic cycle to produce ATP and CO(2) (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
PDP2	Catalyzes the dephosphorylation and concomitant reactivation of the alpha subunit of the E1 component of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism	present in both datasets 
APEX1	Repairs oxidative DNA damages in vitro. May have a role in protection against cell lethality and suppression of mutations. Removes the blocking groups from the 3'-termini of the DNA strand breaks generated by ionizing radiations and bleomycin	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CDK5RAP1	Specifically inhibits CDK5 activation by CDK5R1	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DHX29	ATP-binding RNA helicase involved in translation initiation. Required for efficient initiation on mammalian mRNAs with structured 5'-UTRs by promoting efficient NTPase-dependent 48S complex formation. Specifically binds to the 40S ribosome near the mRNA entrance. Does not possess a processive helicase activity	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FEN1	The protein encoded by this gene removes 5&apos; overhanging flaps in DNA repair and processes the 5&apos; ends of Okazaki fragments in lagging strand DNA synthesis. Direct physical interaction between this protein and AP endonuclease 1 during long-patch base excision repair provides coordinated loading of the proteins onto the substrate, thus passing the substrate from one enzyme to another. The protein is a member of the XPG/RAD2 endonuclease family and is one of ten proteins essential for cell-free DNA replication. DNA secondary structure can inhibit flap processing at certain trinucleotide repeats in a length-dependent manner by concealing the 5&apos; end of the flap that is necessary for both binding and cleavage by the protein encoded by this gene. Therefore, secondary structure can deter the protective function of this protein, leading to site-specific trinucleotide expansions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GK2	catalytic activity:ATP + glycerol = ADP + sn-glycerol 3-phosphatefunction:Key enzyme in the regulation of glycerol uptake and metabolismpathway:Polyol metabolism; glycerol degradation via glycerol kinase pathway; sn-glycerol 3-phosphate from glycerol: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the FGGY kinase familysubcellular location:In sperm the majority of the enzyme is bound to mitochondria	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LIG1	This gene encodes a member of the ATP-dependent DNA ligase protein family. The encoded protein functions in DNA replication, recombination, and the base excision repair process. Mutations in this gene that lead to DNA ligase I deficiency result in immunodeficiency and increased sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents. Disruption of this gene may also be associated with a variety of cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014],	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
LIG3	This gene is a member of the DNA ligase family. Each member of this family encodes a protein that catalyzes the joining of DNA ends but they each have a distinct role in DNA metabolism. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in excision repair and is located in both the mitochondria and nucleus, with translation initiation from the upstream start codon allowing for transport to the mitochondria and translation initiation from a downstream start codon allowing for transport to the nucleus. Additionally, alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MSH5	This gene encodes a member of the mutS family of proteins that are involved in DNA mismatch repair and meiotic recombination. This protein is similar to a Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein that participates in segregation fidelity and crossing-over events during meiosis. This protein plays a role in promoting ionizing radiation-induced apoptosis. This protein forms hetero-oligomers with another member of this family, mutS homolog 4. Polymorphisms in this gene have been linked to various human diseases, including IgA deficiency, common variable immunodeficiency, and premature ovarian failure. Has been shown to localize to mitochondria (Bannwarth, et al., Mitochondrion 2012). 	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTERF1	Transcription termination factor. Binds to a 28 bp region within the tRNA(Leu(uur)) gene at a position immediately adjacent to and downstream of the 16S rRNA gene, this region comprises a tridecamer sequence critical for directing accurate termination. Probably requires one or more components for termination activity	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTERF2	Involved in cell cycle regulation. May participate in the regulation of cell growth through the modulation of mitochondrial transcription. May act as a transcription termination factor	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NFE2L2	Transcription activator that binds to antioxidant response (ARE) elements in the promoter regions of target genes. Important for the coordinated up-regulation of genes in response to oxidative stress. May be involved in the transcriptional activation of genes of the beta-globin cluster by mediating enhancer activity of hypersensitive site 2 of the beta-globin locus control region	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NSUN2	This gene encodes a methyltransferase that catalyzes the methylation of cytosine to 5-methylcytosine (m5C) at position 34 of intron-containing tRNA(Leu)(CAA) precursors. This modification is necessary to stabilize the anticodon-codon pairing and correctly translate the mRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
POLD4	Required for optimal DNA polymerase delta activity. May contribute to PCNA-dependent activity of DNA polymerase delta	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RAD51	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51, and are known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein can interact with the ssDNA-binding protein RPA and RAD52, and it is thought to play roles in homologous pairing and strand transfer of DNA. This protein is also found to interact with BRCA1 and BRCA2, which may be important for the cellular response to DNA damage. BRCA2 is shown to regulate both the intracellular localization and DNA-binding ability of this protein. Loss of these controls following BRCA2 inactivation may be a key event leading to genomic instability and tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009],	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RMRP	This gene encodes the RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease, which cleaves mitochondrial RNA at a priming site of mitochondrial DNA replication. This RNA also interacts with the telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit to form a distinct ribonucleoprotein complex that has RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity and produces double-stranded RNAs that can be processed into small interfering RNA. Mutations in this gene are associated with cartilage-hair hypoplasia.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RRM2B	This gene encodes the small subunit of a p53-inducible ribonucleotide reductase. This heterotetrameric enzyme catalyzes the conversion of ribonucleoside diphosphates to deoxyribonucleoside diphosphates. The product of this reaction is necessary for DNA synthesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia-5, and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010],	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TERT	Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein enzyme essential for the replication of chromosome termini in most eukaryotes. It elongates telomeres. It is a reverse transcriptase that adds simple sequence repeats to chromosome ends by copying a template sequence within the RNA component of the enzyme	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TWNK	This gene encodes a hexameric DNA helicase which unwinds short stretches of double-stranded DNA in the 5' to 3' direction and, along with mitochondrial single-stranded DNA binding protein and mtDNA polymerase gamma, is thought to play a key role in mtDNA replication. The protein localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and mitochondrial nucleoids. Mutations in this gene cause infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (IOSCA) and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) and are also associated with several mitochondrial depletion syndromes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
YRDC	function:May regulate the activity of some transporterssimilarity:Belongs to the SUA5 familysimilarity:Contains 1 YrdC-like domainsubcellular location:Predominantly localized in the plasma membranesubunit:Interacts with RSC1A1tissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed	Replication & Transcription	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SUPV3L1	ATPase and DNA/RNA helicase able to unwind DNA/DNA, DNA/RNA and RNA/RNA duplexes in the 5'-3' direction. May protect cells from apoptosis	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
PHB	Prohibitin inhibits DNA synthesis. It has a role in regulating proliferation. As yet it is unclear if the protein or the mRNA exhibits this effect. May play a role in regulating mitochondrial respiration activity and in aging	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
POLRMT	DNA-dependent RNA polymerase catalyzes the transcription of DNA into RNA using the four ribonucleoside triphosphates as substrates	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
POLDIP2	This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the DNA polymerase delta p50 subunit, as well as with proliferating cell nuclear antigen. The encoded protein maybe play a role in the ability of the replication fork to bypass DNA lesions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
SSBP1	This protein binds preferentially and cooperatively to ss-DNA. Probably involved in mitochondrial DNA replication	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
GK	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the FGGY kinase family. This protein is a key enzyme in the regulation of glycerol uptake and metabolism. It catalyzes the phosphorylation of glycerol by ATP, yielding ADP and glycerol-3-phosphate. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycerol kinase deficiency (GKD). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
ENDOG	Cleaves DNA at double-stranded (DG)n.(DC)n and at single-stranded (DC)n tracts. In addition to deoxyribonuclease activities, also has ribonuclease (RNase) and RNase H activities. Capable of generating the RNA primers required by DNA polymerase gamma to initiate replication of mitochondrial DNA (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TEFM	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0629 family	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TFAM	Involved in mitochondrial transcription regulation. Required for accurate and efficient promoter recognition by the mitochondrial RNA polymerase. Activates transcription by binding immediately upstream of transcriptional start sites. Is able to unwind and bend DNA	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
POLG	Involved in the replication of mitochondrial DNA	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
EXOG	Endo/exonuclease with nicking activity towards supercoiled DNA, a preference for single stranded DNA and 5'-3' exonuclease activity	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
DGUOK	Required for the phosphorylation of several deoxyribonucleosides and certain nucleoside analogs widely employed as antiviral and chemotherapeutic agents	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
NT5M	This gene encodes a 5&apos; nucleotidase that localizes to the mitochondrial matrix. This enzyme dephosphorylates the 5&apos;- and 2&apos;(3&apos;)-phosphates of uracil and thymine deoxyribonucleotides. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
NIF3L1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0135 (NIF3) familysubunit:Homodimer. Interacts with COPS2 (By similarity). Interacts with THOC7	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TOP3A	Reduces the number of supercoils in a highly negatively supercoiled DNA. Essential component of the RMI complex, a complex that plays an important role in the processing of homologous recombination intermediates to limit DNA crossover formation in cells	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TFB1M	S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyltransferase which specifically dimethylates mitochondrial 12S rRNA at the conserved stem loop. Also required for basal transcription of mitochondrial DNA, probably via its interaction with POLRMT and TFAM. Stimulates transcription independently of the methyltransferase activity	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
UNG	This gene encodes one of several uracil-DNA glycosylases. One important function of uracil-DNA glycosylases is to prevent mutagenesis by eliminating uracil from DNA molecules by cleaving the N-glycosylic bond and initiating the base-excision repair (BER) pathway. Uracil bases occur from cytosine deamination or misincorporation of dUMP residues. Alternative promoter usage and splicing of this gene leads to two different isoforms: the mitochondrial UNG1 and the nuclear UNG2. The UNG2 term was used as a previous symbol for the CCNO gene (GeneID 10309), which has been confused with this gene, in the literature and some databases. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
PIF1	This gene encodes a DNA-dependent adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-metabolizing enzyme that functions as a 5&apos; to 3&apos; DNA helicase. The encoded protein can resolve G-quadruplex structures and RNA-DNA hybrids at the ends of chromosomes. It also prevents telomere elongation by inhibiting the actions of telomerase. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative start codons results in multiple isoforms that are differentially localized to either the mitochondria or the nucleus. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TOP1MT	Relieves DNA strain that arise during duplication of mitochondrial DNA	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
RNASEH1	Endonuclease that specifically degrades the RNA of RNA- DNA hybrids	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TK2	This gene encodes a deoxyribonucleoside kinase that specifically phosphorylates thymidine, deoxycytidine, and deoxyuridine. The encoded enzyme localizes to the mitochondria and is required for mitochondrial DNA synthesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with a myopathic form of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms, some of which lack transit peptide, so are not localized to mitochondria. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
CMPK2	May participate in dUTP and dCTP synthesis in mitochondria. Is able to phosphorylate dUMP, dCMP, CMP, UMP and monophosphates of the pyrimidine nucleoside analogs ddC, dFdC, araC, BVDU and FdUrd with ATP as phosphate donor. Efficacy is highest for dUMP followed by dCMP; CMP and UMP are poor substrates. May be involved in mtDNA depletion caused by long term treatment with ddC or other pyrimidine analogs	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
MUTYH	This gene encodes a DNA glycosylase involved in oxidative DNA damage repair. The enzyme excises adenine bases from the DNA backbone at sites where adenine is inappropriately paired with guanine, cytosine, or 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine, a major oxidatively damaged DNA lesion. The protein is localized to the nucleus and mitochondria. Mutations in this gene result in heritable predisposition to colon and stomach cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TFB2M	S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyltransferase which specifically dimethylates mitochondrial 12S rRNA at the conserved stem loop. Also required for basal transcription of mitochondrial DNA, probably via its interaction with POLRMT and TFAM. Stimulates transcription independently of the methyltransferase activity. Compared to TFB1M, it activates transcription of mitochondrial DNA more efficiently, while it has less methyltransferase activity	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
NTHL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA N-glycosylase of the endonuclease III family. Like a similar protein in E. coli, the encoded protein has DNA glycosylase activity on DNA substrates containing oxidized pyrimidine residues and has apurinic/apyrimidinic lyase activity. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
DHX30	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The family member encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial nucleoid protein that associates with mitochondrial DNA. It has also been identified as a component of a transcriptional repressor complex that functions in retinal development, and it is required to optimize the function of the zinc-finger antiviral protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
TRUB2	May be responsible for synthesis of pseudouridine from uracil in transfer RNAs (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
APEX2	May participate in both nuclear and mitochondrial post- replicative base excision repair (BER). In the nucleus functions in the PCNA-dependent BER pathway	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
POLG2	Mitochondrial polymerase processivity subunit. Stimulates the polymerase and exonuclease activities, and increases the processivity of the enzyme. Binds to ss-DNA	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
MGME1	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein necessary for the maintenance of mitochondrial genome synthesis. The encoded protein is a RecB-type exonuclease and primarily cleaves single-stranded DNA. Defects in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome-11. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
ALKBH1	This gene encodes a homolog to the E. coli alkB gene product. The E. coli alkB protein is part of the adaptive response mechanism of DNA alkylation damage repair. It is involved in damage reversal by oxidative demethylation of 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
DNA2	This gene encodes a member of the DNA2/NAM7 helicase family. The encoded protein is a conserved helicase/nuclease involved in the maintenance of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA stability. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia-6 (PEOA6) and Seckel syndrome 8. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014],	Replication & Transcription	present in both datasets 
GCLC	Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase is the first rate-limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of two subunits, a heavy catalytic subunit and a light regulatory subunit. This locus encodes the catalytic subunit, while the regulatory subunit is derived from a different gene located on chromosome 1p22-p21. Mutations at this locus have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to deficiency of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and susceptibility to myocardial infarction.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010],	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GCLM	Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase, is the first rate limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of two subunits, a heavy catalytic subunit and a light regulatory subunit. Gamma glutamylcysteine synthetase deficiency has been implicated in some forms of hemolytic anemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015],	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GSS	Glutathione is important for a variety of biological functions, including protection of cells from oxidative damage by free radicals, detoxification of xenobiotics, and membrane transport. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a homodimer to catalyze the second step of glutathione biosynthesis, which is the ATP-dependent conversion of gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteine to glutathione. Defects in this gene are a cause of glutathione synthetase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GSTA1	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GSTA2	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GSTA4	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles. This isozyme has a high catalytic efficiency with 4-hydroxyalkenals such as 4- hydroxynonenal (4-HNE)	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GSTP1	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NGB	This gene encodes an oxygen-binding protein that is distantly related to members of the globin gene family. It is highly conserved among other vertebrates. It is expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system where it may be involved in increasing oxygen availability and providing protection under hypoxic/ischemic conditions.	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRDX1	Involved in redox regulation of the cell. Reduces peroxides with reducing equivalents provided through the thioredoxin system but not from glutaredoxin. May play an important role in eliminating peroxides generated during metabolism. Might participate in the signaling cascades of growth factors and tumor necrosis factor-alpha by regulating the intracellular concentrations of H(2)O(2)	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TLDC2	Involved in ROS defense by similarity to Yeast OXR1	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TXN	ADF augments the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor TAC (IL2R/P55)Participates in various redox reactions through the reversible oxidation of its active center dithiol to a disulfide and catalyzes dithiol-disulfide exchange reactions. Plays a role in the reversible S-nitrosylation of cysteine residues in target proteins, and thereby contributes to the response to intracellular nitric oxide. Nitrosylates the active site Cys of CASP3 in response to nitric oxide (NO), and thereby inhibits caspase-3 activity	ROS Defense	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRDX3	Involved in redox regulation of the cell. Protects radical-sensitive enzymes from oxidative damage by a radical- generating system. Acts synergistically with MAP3K13 to regulate the activation of NF-kappa-B in the cytosol	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
TXN2	Has an anti-apoptotic function and plays an important role in the regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential. Could be involved in the resistance to anti-tumor agents. Possesses a dithiol-reducing activity	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
SOD2	Destroys radicals which are normally produced within the cells and which are toxic to biological systems (By similarity)Destroys radicals which are normally produced within the cells and which are toxic to biological systems	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
MSRB2	Catalyzes the reduction of free and protein-bound methionine sulfoxide to methionine (By similarity)	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
TXNRD2	This gene encodes a member of the class I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family. The encoded protein is a selenocysteine-containing flavoenzyme that maintains thioredoxins in a reduced state, thereby playing a key role in regulating the cellular redox environment. Mammals have three related thioredoxin reductases. This gene encodes a mitochondrial form important for scavenging of reactive oxygen species in mitochondria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013],	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
GLRX2	Glutathione-dependent oxidoreductase that facilitates the maintenance of mitochondrial redox homeostasis upon induction of apoptosis by oxidative stress. Involved in response to hydrogen peroxide and regulation of apoptosis caused by oxidative stress. Acts as a very efficient catalyst of monothiol reactions because of its high affinity for protein glutathione-mixed disulfides. Can receive electrons not only from glutathione (GSH), but also from thioredoxin reductase supporting both monothiol and dithiol reactions. Efficiently catalyzes both glutathionylation and deglutathionylation of mitochondrial complex I, which in turn regulates the superoxide production by the complex. Overexpression decreases the susceptibility to apoptosis and prevents loss of cardiolipin and cytochrome c release	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
MPV17	This gene encodes a mitochondrial inner membrane protein that is implicated in the metabolism of reactive oxygen species. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the hepatocerebral form of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDDS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
GSR	Maintains high levels of reduced glutathione in the cytosol	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
MPV17L	Isoform 1 participates in reactive oxygen species metablism by up- or down-regulation of the genes of antioxidant enzymes	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
ROMO1	Induces production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) which are necessary for cell proliferation. May play a role in inducing oxidative DNA damage and replicative senescence	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
PRDX5	Reduces hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides with reducing equivalents provided through the thioredoxin system. Involved in intracellular redox signaling	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
GPX1	Protects the hemoglobin in erythrocytes from oxidative breakdown	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
MSRA	Has an important function as a repair enzyme for proteins that have been inactivated by oxidation. Catalyzes the reversible oxidation-reduction of methionine sulfoxide in proteins to methionine	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
NUDT2	Asymmetrically hydrolyzes Ap4A to yield AMP and ATP. Plays a major role in maintaining homeostasis	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
CAT	Occurs in almost all aerobically respiring organisms and serves to protect cells from the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide. Promotes growth of cells including T-cells, B-cells, myeloid leukemia cells, melanoma cells, mastocytoma cells and normal and transformed fibroblast cells	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
OXR1	May be involved in protection from oxidative damage	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
MGST1	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles. Has a wide substrate specificity	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
TXNRD1	This gene encodes a member of the family of pyridine nucleotide oxidoreductases. This protein reduces thioredoxins as well as other substrates, and plays a role in selenium metabolism and protection against oxidative stress. The functional enzyme is thought to be a homodimer which uses FAD as a cofactor. Each subunit contains a selenocysteine (Sec) residue which is required for catalytic activity. The selenocysteine is encoded by the UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3&apos; UTR of selenocysteine-containing genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding the same or different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
SOD1	Destroys radicals which are normally produced within the cells and which are toxic to biological systems	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
MSRB3	Catalyzes the reduction of free and protein-bound methionine sulfoxide to methionine	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
OGG1	This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for the excision of 8-oxoguanine, a mutagenic base byproduct which occurs as a result of exposure to reactive oxygen. The action of this enzyme includes lyase activity for chain cleavage. Alternative splicing of the C-terminal region of this gene classifies splice variants into two major groups, type 1 and type 2, depending on the last exon of the sequence. Type 1 alternative splice variants end with exon 7 and type 2 end with exon 8. All variants share the N-terminal region in common, which contains a mitochondrial targeting signal that is essential for mitochondrial localization. Many alternative splice variants for this gene have been described, but the full-length nature for every variant has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008],	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
PARK7	The product of this gene belongs to the peptidase C56 family of proteins. It acts as a positive regulator of androgen receptor-dependent transcription. It may also function as a redox-sensitive chaperone, as a sensor for oxidative stress, and it apparently protects neurons against oxidative stress and cell death. Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease 7. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
GPX4	Protects cells against membrane lipid peroxidation and cell death. Required for normal sperm development and male fertility. Could play a major role in protecting mammals from the toxicity of ingested lipid hydroperoxides. Essential for embryonic development. Protects from radiation and oxidative damage (By similarity)	ROS Defense	present in both datasets 
ARNT	This gene encodes a protein containing a basic helix-loop-helix domain and two characteristic PAS domains along with a PAC domain. The encoded protein binds to ligand-bound aryl hydrocarbon receptor and aids in the movement of this complex to the nucleus, where it promotes the expression of genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism. This protein is also a co-factor for transcriptional regulation by hypoxia-inducible factor 1. Chromosomal translocation of this locus with the ETV6 (ets variant 6) gene on chromosome 12 have been described in leukemias. 	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ATF4	This gene encodes a transcription factor that was originally identified as a widely expressed mammalian DNA binding protein that could bind a tax-responsive enhancer element in the LTR of HTLV-1. The encoded protein was also isolated and characterized as the cAMP-response element binding protein 2 (CREB-2). The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of DNA-binding proteins that includes the AP-1 family of transcription factors, cAMP-response element binding proteins (CREBs) and CREB-like proteins. These transcription factors share a leucine zipper region that is involved in protein-protein interactions, located C-terminal to a stretch of basic amino acids that functions as a DNA binding domain. Two alternative transcripts encoding the same protein have been described. 	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
CREB1	This protein binds the cAMP response element (CRE), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. CREB stimulates transcription on binding to the CRE. Transciption activation is enhanced by the TORC coactivators which act independently of Ser-133 phosphorylation. Implicated in synchronization of circadian rhythmicity	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
E2F1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcription factors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycle and action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transforming proteins of small DNA tumor viruses. The E2F proteins contain several evolutionally conserved domains found in most members of the family. These domains include a DNA binding domain, a dimerization domain which determines interaction with the differentiation regulated transcription factor proteins (DP), a transactivation domain enriched in acidic amino acids, and a tumor suppressor protein association domain which is embedded within the transactivation domain. This protein and another 2 members, E2F2 and E2F3, have an additional cyclin binding domain. This protein binds preferentially to retinoblastoma protein pRB in a cell-cycle dependent manner. It can mediate both cell proliferation and p53-dependent/independent apoptosis. 	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ESRRA	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor that is most closely related to the estrogen receptor. This protein acts as a site-specific transcription factor and interacts with members of the PGC-1 family of transcription cofactors to regulate the expression of most genes involved in cellular energy production as well as in the process of mitochondrial biogenesis. A processed pseudogene of ESRRA is located on chromosome 13q12.1.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
FOXO3	This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. This gene likely functions as a trigger for apoptosis through expression of genes necessary for cell death. Translocation of this gene with the MLL gene is associated with secondary acute leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GABPA	This gene encodes one of three GA-binding protein transcription factor subunits which functions as a DNA-binding subunit. Since this subunit shares identity with a subunit encoding the nuclear respiratory factor 2 gene, it is likely involved in activation of cytochrome oxidase expression and nuclear control of mitochondrial function. This subunit also shares identity with a subunit constituting the transcription factor E4TF1, responsible for expression of the adenovirus E4 gene. Because of its chromosomal localization and ability to form heterodimers with other polypeptides, this gene may play a role in the Down Syndrome phenotype. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
HIF1A	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subunit. HIF-1 functions as a master regulator of cellular and systemic homeostatic response to hypoxia by activating transcription of many genes, including those involved in energy metabolism, angiogenesis, apoptosis, and other genes whose protein products increase oxygen delivery or facilitate metabolic adaptation to hypoxia. HIF-1 thus plays an essential role in embryonic vascularization, tumor angiogenesis and pathophysiology of ischemic disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. 	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
JUN	This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17. It encodes a protein which is highly similar to the viral protein, and which interacts directly with specific target DNA sequences to regulate gene expression. This gene is intronless and is mapped to 1p32-p31, a chromosomal region involved in both translocations and deletions in human malignancies.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MITF	The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that contains both basic helix-loop-helix and leucine zipper structural features. The encoded protein regulates melanocyte development and is responsible for pigment cell-specific transcription of the melanogenesis enzyme genes. Heterozygous mutations in the this gene cause auditory-pigmentary syndromes, such as Waardenburg syndrome type 2 and Tietz syndrome.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MYC	This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the related transcription factor MAX. This complex binds to the E box DNA consensus sequence and regulates the transcription of specific target genes. Amplification of this gene is frequently observed in numerous human cancers. Translocations involving this gene are associated with Burkitt lymphoma and multiple myeloma in human patients. There is evidence to show that translation initiates both from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site, resulting in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
NRF1	Transcription factor that activates the expression of the EIF2S1 (EIF2-alpha) gene. Links the transcriptional modulation of key metabolic genes to cellular growth and development. Implicated in the control of nuclear genes required for respiration, heme biosynthesis, and mitochondrial DNA transcription and replication	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PPARA	Peroxisome proliferators include hypolipidemic drugs, herbicides, leukotriene antagonists, and plasticizers; this term arises because they induce an increase in the size and number of peroxisomes. Peroxisomes are subcellular organelles found in plants and animals that contain enzymes for respiration and for cholesterol and lipid metabolism. The action of peroxisome proliferators is thought to be mediated via specific receptors, called PPARs, which belong to the steroid hormone receptor superfamily. PPARs affect the expression of target genes involved in cell proliferation, cell differentiation and in immune and inflammation responses. Three closely related subtypes (alpha, beta/delta, and gamma) have been identified. This gene encodes the subtype PPAR-alpha, which is a nuclear transcription factor. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, although the full-length nature of only two has been determined.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PPARG	This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) subfamily of nuclear receptors. PPARs form heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and these heterodimers regulate transcription of various genes. Three subtypes of PPARs are known: PPAR-alpha, PPAR-delta, and PPAR-gamma. The protein encoded by this gene is PPAR-gamma and is a regulator of adipocyte differentiation. Additionally, PPAR-gamma has been implicated in the pathology of numerous diseases including obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosis and cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PPARGC1A	Transcriptional coactivator for steroid receptors and nuclear receptors. Greatly increases the transcriptional activity of PPARG and thyroid hormone receptor on the uncoupling protein promoter. Can regulate key mitochondrial genes that contribute to the program of adaptive thermogenesis (By similarity)	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PPARGC1B	The protein encoded by this gene stimulates the activity of several transcription factors and nuclear receptors, including estrogen receptor alpha, nuclear respiratory factor 1, and glucocorticoid receptor. The encoded protein may be involved in fat oxidation, non-oxidative glucose metabolism, and the regulation of energy expenditure. This protein is downregulated in prediabetic and type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. Certain allelic variations in this gene increase the risk of the development of obesity. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. 	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PPRC1	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to PPAR-gamma coactivator 1 (PPARGC1/PGC-1), a protein that can activate mitochondrial biogenesis in part through a direct interaction with nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF1). This protein has been shown to interact with NRF1. It is thought to be a functional relative of PPAR-gamma coactivator 1 that activates mitochondrial biogenesis through NRF1 in response to proliferative signals. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RELA	NF-kappa-B is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in several biological processes. It is held in the cytoplasm in an inactive state by specific inhibitors. Upon degradation of the inhibitor, NF-kappa-B moves to the nucleus and activates transcription of specific genes. NF-kappa-B is composed of NFKB1 or NFKB2 bound to either REL, RELA, or RELB. The most abundant form of NF-kappa-B is NFKB1 complexed with the product of this gene, RELA. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to GC-rich motifs of many promoters. The encoded protein is involved in many cellular processes, including cell differentiation, cell growth, apoptosis, immune responses, response to DNA damage, and chromatin remodeling. Post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, acetylation, glycosylation, and proteolytic processing significantly affect the activity of this protein, which can be an activator or a repressor. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TFE3	This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix domain-containing transcription factor that binds MUE3-type E-box sequences in the promoter of genes. The encoded protein promotes the expression of genes downstream of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling. This gene may be involved in chromosomal translocations in renal cell carcinomas and other cancers, resulting in the production of fusion proteins. Translocation partners include PRCC (papillary renal cell carcinoma), NONO (non-POU domain containing, octamer-binding), and ASPSCR1 (alveolar soft part sarcoma chromosome region, candidate 1), among other genes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TFEB	TFEB (Transcription Factor EB) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TFEB include Renal Cell Carcinoma, Xp11-Associated and Microphthalmia. Among its related pathways are PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and therapeutic opportunities and Apoptosis and Autophagy. Gene Ontology (GO) annotations related to this gene include DNA-binding transcription factor activity and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is MITF.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TP53	Acts as a tumor suppressor in many tumor types; induces growth arrest or apoptosis depending on the physiological circumstances and cell type. Involved in cell cycle regulation as a trans-activator that acts to negatively regulate cell division by controlling a set of genes required for this process. One of the activated genes is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases. Apoptosis induction seems to be mediated either by stimulation of BAX and FAS antigen expression, or by repression of Bcl-2 expression (By similarity)	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
YAP1	This gene encodes a downstream nuclear effector of the Hippo signaling pathway which is involved in development, growth, repair, and homeostasis. This gene is known to play a role in the development and progression of multiple cancers as a transcriptional regulator of this signaling pathway and may function as a potential target for cancer treatment. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
YY1	YY1 is a ubiquitously distributed transcription factor belonging to the GLI-Kruppel class of zinc finger proteins. The protein is involved in repressing and activating a diverse number of promoters. YY1 may direct histone deacetylases and histone acetyltransferases to a promoter in order to activate or repress the promoter, thus implicating histone modification in the function of YY1.	Transcription (nuclear)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
EIF2AK3	The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates the alpha subunit of eukaryotic translation-initiation factor 2, leading to its inactivation, and thus to a rapid reduction of translational initiation and repression of global protein synthesis. This protein is thought to modulate mitochondrial function. It is a type I membrane protein located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where it is induced by ER stress caused by malfolded proteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with Wolcott-Rallison syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015],	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GARS1	Description: EC 6.1.1.14 [validated, MUID:95273165] Pathway: protein biosynthesis,	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GATB	catalytic activity:ATP + L-glutamyl-tRNA(Gln) + L-glutamine = ADP + phosphate + L-glutaminyl-tRNA(Gln) + L-glutamatefunction:Furnishes a means for formation of correctly charged Gln-tRNA(Gln) through the transamidation of misacylated Glu-tRNA(Gln) in the mitochondria. The reaction takes place in the presence of glutamine and ATP through an activated gamma-phospho-Glu-tRNA(Gln) similarity:Belongs to the gatB/gatE family. GatB subfamilytissue specificity:Predominantly expressed in tissues characterized by high rates of oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos), including muscle and heart	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
GLYATL3	Acyltransferase which transfers the acyl group to the N- terminus of glycine (By similarity)	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MRM2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S-adenosylmethionine-binding protein family. It is a nucleolar protein and it may be involved in the processing and modification of rRNA. This gene has been suggested to be involved in cell cycle control and DNA repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MRM3	Probable RNA methyltransferase (By similarity)	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MRPL58	The protein encoded by this gene is a peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase and a vital component of the large mitochondrial ribosome. The encoded protein serves as a ribosome release factor for this ribosome, which translates mitochondrial genes. This protein may be responsible for degrading prematurely-terminated polypeptides and for reusing stalled ribosomes. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014],	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTERF3	similarity:Belongs to the mTERF family	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTERF4	similarity:Belongs to the mTERF family	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MTRES1	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I and IV assembly	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PIN4	This gene encodes a member of the parvulin subfamily of the peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase protein family. The encoded protein catalyzes the isomerization of peptidylprolyl bonds, and may play a role in the cell cycle, chromatin remodeling, and/or ribosome biogenesis. The encoded protein may play an additional role in the mitochondria. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009],	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PRORP	Functions in mitochondrial tRNA maturation. Part of mitochondrial ribonuclease P, an enzyme composed of MRPP1/RG9MTD1, MRPP2/HSD17B10 and MRPP3/KIAA0391, which cleaves tRNA molecules in their 5'-ends	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
QARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. In metazoans, 9 aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases specific for glutamine (gln), glutamic acid (glu), and 7 other amino acids are associated within a multienzyme complex. Although present in eukaryotes, glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase (QARS) is absent from many prokaryotes, mitochondria, and chloroplasts, in which Gln-tRNA(Gln) is formed by transamidation of the misacylated Glu-tRNA(Gln). Glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013],	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RIDA	Catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of enamine/imine intermediates that form during the course of normal metabolism. May facilitate the release of ammonia from these potentially toxic reactive metabolites, reducing their impact on cellular components. It may act on enamine/imine intermediates formed by several types of pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent dehydratases including L-threonine dehydratase.	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RNASEL	Endoribonuclease, mediator of interferon action, which play a role in mediating resistance to virus infection and apoptosis. Might play a central role in the regulation of mRNA turnover	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
RPS19	Required for pre-rRNA processing and maturation of 40S ribosomal subunits	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SBDS	May be involved in the biogenesis of the 60S ribosomal subunit and translational activation of ribosomes. May trigger the GTP-dependent release of eif6 from 60S pre-ribosomes in the cytoplasm, thereby activating ribosomes for translation competence by allowing 80S ribosome assembly and facilitating eif6 recycling to the nucleus, where it is required for 60S rRNA processing and nuclear export (By similarity)	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TRMT5	Specifically methylates guanosine-37 in various tRNAs. Not dependent on the nature of the nucleoside 5' of the target nucleoside	Translation	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MRPL12	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein which forms homodimers. In prokaryotic ribosomes, two L7/L12 dimers and one L10 protein form the L8 protein complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS35	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that has had confusing nomenclature in the literature. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 3p, 5q, and 10q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL53	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 1p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS27	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that may be a functional partner of the death associated protein 3 (DAP3). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013],	Translation	present in both datasets 
LRPPRC	May play a role in RNA metabolism in both nuclei and mitochondria. In the nucleus binds to HNRPA1-associated poly(A) mRNAs and is part of nmRNP complexes at late stages of mRNA maturation which are possibly associated with nuclear mRNA export. May bind mature mRNA in the nucleus outer membrane. In mitochondria binds to poly(A) mRNA. Plays a role in translation or stability of mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase (COX) subunits. May be involved in transcription regulation. Cooperates with PPARGC1A to regulate certain mitochondrially encoded genes and gluconeogenic genes and may regulate docking of PPARGC1A to transcription factors. Seems to be involved in the transcription regulation of the multidrug-related genes MDR1 and MVP. Part of a nuclear factor that binds to the invMED1 element of MDR1 and MVP gene promoters. Binds single-stranded DNA (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
GFM1	Eukaryotes contain two protein translational systems, one in the cytoplasm and one in the mitochondria. Mitochondrial translation is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial function and mutations in this system lead to a breakdown in the respiratory chain-oxidative phosphorylation system and to impaired maintenance of mitochondrial DNA. This gene encodes one of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors. Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in different disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL46	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS23	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 7p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
IARS2	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAS, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Two forms of isoleucine-tRNA synthetase exist, a cytoplasmic form and a mitochondrial form. This gene encodes the mitochondrial isoleucine-tRNA synthetase which belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS15	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S15P family. The encoded protein is more than two times the size of its E. coli counterpart, with the 12S rRNA binding sites conserved. Between human and mouse, the encoded protein is the least conserved among small subunit ribosomal proteins. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 15q and 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL34	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL2	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the EcoL2 ribosomal protein family. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 12q. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014],	Translation	present in both datasets 
LARS2	This gene encodes a class 1 aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, mitochondrial leucyl-tRNA synthetase. Each of the twenty aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyzes the aminoacylation of a specific tRNA or tRNA isoaccepting family with the cognate amino acid. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL43	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. This gene and the gene for a semaphorin class 4 protein (SEMA4G) overlap at map location 10q24.31 and are transcribed in opposite directions. Sequence analysis identified multiple transcript variants encoding at least four different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL10	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Sequence analysis identified three transcript variants that encode two different isoforms. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 5q. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRRF	This gene encodes a ribosome recycling factor, which is a component of the mitochondrial translational machinery. The encoded protein, along with mitochondrial elongation factor 2, functions in ribosomal recycling at the termination of mitochondrial translation by mediating the disassembly of ribosomes from messenger RNA. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTIF2	One of the essential components for the initiation of protein synthesis. Protects formylmethionyl-tRNA from spontaneous hydrolysis and promotes its binding to the 30S ribosomal subunits. Also involved in the hydrolysis of GTP during the formation of the 70S ribosomal complex	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS2	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S2 family. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012],	Translation	present in both datasets 
GUF1	This gene encodes a GTPase that triggers back-translocation of the elongating ribosome during mitochondrial protein synthesis. The protein contains a highly conserved C-terminal domain not found in other GTPases that facilitates tRNA binding. The encoded protein is thought to prevent misincorporation of amino acids in stressful, suboptimal conditions. An allelic variant in this gene has been associated with early infantile epileptic encephalopathy-40. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL16	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL40	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Deletions in this gene may contribute to the etiology of velo-cardio-facial syndrome and DiGeorge syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS18A	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P family. The encoded protein is one of three that has significant sequence similarity to bacterial S18 proteins. The primary sequences of the three human mitochondrial S18 proteins are no more closely related to each other than they are to the prokaryotic S18 proteins. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 3p. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL1	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the L1 ribosomal protein family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MALSU1	similarity:Belongs to the Iojap family	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL4	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Sequence analysis identified alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL55	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms were identified through sequence analysis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRM1	Probably methylates the ribose of guanosine G-2270 in the peptidyl transferase center of the mitochondrial large ribosomal RNA (21S) (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL44	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS14	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S14P family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
GFM2	Eukaryotes contain two protein translational systems, one in the cytoplasm and one in the mitochondria. Mitochondrial translation is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial function and mutations in this system lead to a breakdown in the respiratory chain-oxidative phosphorylation system and to impaired maintenance of mitochondrial DNA. This gene encodes one of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors, which is a GTPase that plays a role at the termination of mitochondrial translation by mediating the disassembly of ribosomes from messenger RNA . Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Translation	present in both datasets 
DAP3	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that also participates in apoptotic pathways which are initiated by tumor necrosis factor-alpha, Fas ligand, and gamma interferon. This protein potentially binds ATP/GTP and might be a functional partner of the mitoribosomal protein S27. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1q and 2q. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS17	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S17P family. The encoded protein is moderately conserved between human mitochondrial and prokaryotic ribosomal proteins. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1p, 3p, 6q, 14p, 18q, and Xq. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL17	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
TACO1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that function as a translational activator of mitochondrially-encoded cytochrome c oxidase 1. Mutations in this gene are associated with Leigh syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL11	This nuclear gene encodes a 39S subunit component of the mitochondial ribosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes for this gene are found on chromosomes 5 and 12. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL13	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL33	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTO1	Involved in the 5-carboxymethylaminomethyl modification (mnm(5)s(2)U34) of the wobble uridine base in mitochondrial tRNAs	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS28	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that has been called mitochondrial ribosomal protein S35 in the literature. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
ERAL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase that localizes to the mitochondrion. The encoded protein binds to the 3&apos; terminal stem loop of 12S mitochondrial rRNA and is required for proper assembly of the 28S small mitochondrial ribosomal subunit. Deletion of this gene has been shown to cause mitochondrial dysfunction, growth retardation, and apoptosis. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL28	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein, a part of which was originally isolated by its ability to recognize tyrosinase in an HLA-A24-restricted fashion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
TSFM	Associates with the EF-Tu.GDP complex and induces the exchange of GDP to GTP. It remains bound to the aminoacyl-tRNA.EF- Tu.GTP complex up to the GTP hydrolysis stage on the ribosome (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
YARS2	Catalyzes the attachment of tyrosine to tRNA(Tyr) in a two-step reaction: tyrosine is first activated by ATP to form Tyr- AMP and then transferred to the acceptor end of tRNA(Tyr) (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL21	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms were identified through sequence analysis although some may be subject to nonsense-mediated decay (NMD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS9	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL15	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the EcoL15 ribosomal protein family. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 15q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL24	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein which is more than twice the size of its E.coli counterpart (EcoL24). Sequence analysis identified two transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS7	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. In the prokaryotic ribosome, the comparable protein is thought to play an essential role in organizing the 3&apos; domain of the 16 S rRNA in the vicinity of the P- and A-sites. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 8p and 12p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL3	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the L3P ribosomal protein family. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 13q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS12	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S12P family. The encoded protein is a key component of the ribosomal small subunit and controls the decoding fidelity and susceptibility to aminoglycoside antibiotics. The gene for mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthetase is located upstream and adjacent to this gene, and both genes are possible candidates for the autosomal dominant deafness gene (DFNA4). Splice variants that differ in the 5&apos; UTR have been found for this gene; all three variants encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL49	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 5q and 8p. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL19	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL36	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 2p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
FARS2	This gene encodes a protein that transfers phenylalanine to its cognate tRNA. This protein localizes to the mitochondrion and plays a role in mitochondrial protein translation. Mutations in this gene can cause combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 14 (Alpers encephalopathy). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS18C	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P family. The encoded protein is one of three that has significant sequence similarity to bacterial S18 proteins. The primary sequences of the three human mitochondrial S18 proteins are no more closely related to each other than they are to the prokaryotic S18 proteins. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 8p, 12p, 15q, and 22q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MARS2	This gene produces a mitochondrial methionyl-tRNA synthetase protein that is encoded by the nuclear genome and imported to the mitochondrion. This protein likely functions as a monomer and is predicted to localize to the mitochondrial matrix. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease spastic ataxia-3 (SPAX3). [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014],	Translation	present in both datasets 
GATC	similarity:Belongs to the gatC family	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL20	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 21q. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS21	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S21P family. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1p, 1q, 9p, 10p, 10q, 16q, and 17q. Available sequence data analyses identified splice variants that differ in the 5&apos; UTR; both transcripts encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL30	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 6p and 12p. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream lipoyltransferase 1 (LIPT1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS34	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL22	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the L22 ribosomal protein family. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 4q. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL47	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. This gene is immediately adjacent to the gene for BAF complex 53 kDa subunit protein a (BAF53a), in a tail-to-tail orientation. Two transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
PPA2	The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondrion, is highly similar to members of the inorganic pyrophosphatase (PPase) family, and contains the signature sequence essential for the catalytic activity of PPase. PPases catalyze the hydrolysis of pyrophosphate to inorganic phosphate, which is important for the phosphate metabolism of cells. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL9	This is a nuclear gene encoding a protein component of the 39S subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 8. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014],	Translation	present in both datasets 
WARS2	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Two forms of tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase exist, a cytoplasmic form, named WARS, and a mitochondrial form, named WARS2. This gene encodes the mitochondrial tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTG1	Mitochondrial GTPase. May be involved in assembly of the large ribosomal subunit (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS16	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S16P family. The encoded protein is one of the most highly conserved ribosomal proteins between mammalian and yeast mitochondria. Three pseudogenes (located at 8q21.3, 20q13.32, 22q12-q13.1) for this gene have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
SLIRP	RNA-binding protein that acts as a nuclear receptor corepressor. Probably acts by binding the SRA RNA, and repressing the SRA-mediated nuclear receptor coactivation. Binds the STR7 loop of SRA RNA. Also able to repress glucocorticoid (GR), androgen (AR), thyroid (TR) and VDR-mediated transactivation	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS5	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S5P family. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 4q, 5q, and 18q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS26	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. This gene lies adjacent to and downstream of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone precursor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
BPHL	This gene encodes a member of the serine protease family of hydrolytic enzymes which contain a serine in their active site. The encoded protein may play a role in activation of the antiviral prodrug valacyclovir. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL27	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS10	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S10P family. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1q, 3p, and 9p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL37	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL41	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the YmL27 ribosomal protein family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS6	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S6P family. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1p and 12q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL23	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. The gene is biallelically expressed, despite its location within a region of imprinted genes on chromosome 11. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
CCDC58	similarity:Belongs to the CCDC58 family	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTG2	Small G proteins, such as GTPBP5, act as molecular switches that play crucial roles in the regulation of fundamental cellular processes such as protein synthesis, nuclear transport, membrane trafficking, and signal transduction (Hirano et al 2006 [PubMed 17054726]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
DARS2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates aspartyl-tRNA. Mutations in this gene are associated with leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation (LBSL). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL51	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 4p and 21q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL32	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the L32 ribosomal protein family. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome Xp. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
TUFM	This protein promotes the GTP-dependent binding of aminoacyl-tRNA to the A-site of ribosomes during protein biosynthesis	Translation	present in both datasets 
RMND1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the evolutionary conserved sif2 family of proteins that share the DUF155 domain in common. This protein is thought to be localized in the mitochondria and involved in mitochondrial translation. Mutations in this gene are associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency-11. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS25	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 4. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
CARS2	This gene encodes a putative member of the class I family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. These enzymes play a critical role in protein biosynthesis by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. This protein is encoded by the nuclear genome but is likely to be imported to the mitochondrion where it is thought to catalyze the ligation of cysteine to tRNA molecules. A splice-site mutation in this gene has been associated with a novel progressive myoclonic epilepsy disease with similar symptoms to MERRF syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS30	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that is similar to the chicken pro-apoptotic protein p52. Transcript variants using alternative promoters or polyA sites have been mentioned in the literature but the complete description of these sequences is not available. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
HSD17B10	Functions in mitochondrial tRNA maturation. Part of mitochondrial ribonuclease P, an enzyme composed of MRPP1/RG9MTD1, MRPP2/HSD17B10 and MRPP3/KIAA0391, which cleaves tRNA molecules in their 5'-ends. By interacting with intracellular amyloid-beta, it may contribute to the neuronal dysfunction associated with Alzheimer disease (AD)	Translation	present in both datasets 
NARS2	This gene encodes a putative member of the class II family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. These enzymes play a critical role in protein biosynthesis by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. This protein is encoded by the nuclear genome but is likely to be imported to the mitochondrion where it is thought to catalyze the ligation of asparagine to tRNA molecules. Mutations in this gene have been associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 24 (COXPD24). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
RPUSD3	similarity:Belongs to the pseudouridine synthase rluA family	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL18	This nuclear gene encodes a protein component of the larger 39S subunit of mitochondrial ribosome. This protein may also aid in the import of nuclear-encoded 5S rRNA into mitochondria. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, most of which are not predicted to encode a protein. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
CHCHD1	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Translation	present in both datasets 
TRNT1	Adds and repairs the conserved 3'-CCA sequence necessary for the attachment of amino acids to the 3' terminus of tRNA molecules, using CTP and ATP as substrates	Translation	present in both datasets 
VARS2	This gene encodes a mitochondrial aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, which catalyzes the attachment of valine to tRNA(Val) for mitochondrial translation. Mutations in this gene cause combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency-20, and are also associated with early-onset mitochondrial encephalopathies. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL54	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL38	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
PTCD3	similarity:Belongs to the PTCD3 familysimilarity:Contains 10 PPR (pentatricopeptide) repeats	Translation	present in both datasets 
NOA1	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded GTPase that functions in the mitochondrion. Upon translation, this protein is imported into the nucleus and then into the nucleolus before being exported to the mitochondrion. The encoded protein is required for oxygen-dependent regulation of mitochondrial respiratory complexes and for mitochondrial protein synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL35	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Sequence analysis identified three transcript variants. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 6p, 10q, and Xp. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS11	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that contains a high level of sequence similarity with ribosomal protein S11P family members. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 20. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
REXO2	3'-to-5' exoribonuclease specific for small oligoribonucleotides. Active on small (primarily </=5 nucleotides in length) single-stranded RNA and DNA oligomers. May have a role for cellular nucleotide recycling	Translation	present in both datasets 
SARS2	Catalyzes the attachment of serine to tRNA(Ser). Is also able to aminoacylate tRNA(Sec) with serine, to form the misacylated tRNA L-seryl-tRNA(Sec), which will be further converted into selenocysteinyl-tRNA(Sec) (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL57	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a protein which belongs to an undetermined ribosomal subunit and which seems to be specific to animal mitoribosomes. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1p, 1q, 3p, 5q, 8q, 14q, and Y. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
EARS2	Catalyzes the attachment of glutamate to tRNA(Glu) in a two-step reaction: glutamate is first activated by ATP to form Glu-AMP and then transferred to the acceptor end of tRNA(Glu) (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTFMT	Formylates methionyl-tRNA in mitochondria. A single tRNA(Met) gene gives rise to both an initiator and an elongator species via an unknown mechanism (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
HARS2	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme belonging to the class II family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. Functioning in the synthesis of histidyl-transfer RNA, the enzyme plays an accessory role in the regulation of protein biosynthesis. The gene is located in a head-to-head orientation with HARS on chromosome five, where the homologous genes likely share a bidirectional promoter. Mutations in this gene are associated with the pathogenesis of Perrault syndrome, which involves ovarian dysgenesis and sensorineural hearing loss. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL50	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a putative 39S subunit protein and belongs to the L47P ribosomal protein family. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 2p, 2q, 5p, and 10q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
RARS2	This nuclear gene encodes a protein that localizes to the mitochondria, where it catalyzes the transfer of L-arginine to its cognate tRNA, an important step in translation of mitochondrially-encoded proteins. Defects in this gene are a cause of pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 6 (PCH6). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
LACTB2	similarity:Belongs to the metallo-beta-lactamase superfamily. Glyoxalase II family	Translation	present in both datasets 
AURKAIP1	function:May act as a negative regulator of Aurora-A kinase, by down-regulation through proteasome-dependent degradationsubunit:Interacts with Aurora-Atissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed and especially highly expressed in heart, skeletal muscle and testis	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL14	This nuclear gene encodes a protein component of the 39S subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
TRMT2B	This gene encodes a homolog of the TRM2 gene in S. cerevisiae. The yeast gene encodes a tRNA methyltransferase that plays a role in tRNA maturation. The yeast protein also has endo-exonuclease activity and may be involved in DNA double strand break repair. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS24	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 11. Read-through transcription exists between this gene and the upstream upregulator of cell proliferation (URGCP) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Translation	present in both datasets 
TRMU	Catalyzes the 2-thiolation of uridine at the wobble position (U34) of mitochondrial tRNA(Lys), tRNA(Glu) and tRNA(Gln). Required for the formation of 5-taurinomethyl-2- thiouridine (tm5s2U) of mitochondrial tRNA(Lys), tRNA(Glu), and tRNA(Gln) at the wobble position. ATP is required to activate the C2 atom of the wobble base	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS22	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that does not seem to have a counterpart in prokaryotic and fungal-mitochondrial ribosomes. This gene lies telomeric of and is transcribed in the opposite direction from the forkhead box L2 gene. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome Xq. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS33	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. The 28S subunit of the mammalian mitoribosome may play a crucial and characteristic role in translation initiation. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that is one of the more highly conserved mitochondrial ribosomal proteins among mammals, Drosophila and C. elegans. Splice variants that differ in the 5&apos; UTR have been found for this gene; all variants encode the same protein. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1q, 4p, 4q, and 20q [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
GADD45GIP1	Acts as a negative regulator of G1 to S cell cycle phase progression by inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinases. Inhibitory effects are additive with GADD45 proteins but occurs also in the absence of GADD45 proteins. Acts as a repressor of the orphan nuclear receptor NR4A1 by inhibiting AB domain-mediated transcriptional activity. May be involved in the hormone-mediated regulation of NR4A1 transcriptional activity	Translation	present in both datasets 
TARS2	This gene encodes a member of the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 4. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL39	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 5q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
GTPBP3	This locus encodes a GTP-binding protein. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondria and may play a role in mitochondrial tRNA modification. Polymorphisms at this locus may be associated with severity of aminoglycoside-induced deafness, a disease associated with a mutation in the 12S rRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTRF1L	Mitochondrial peptide chain release factor that directs the termination of translation in response to the peptide chain termination codons UAA and UAG	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL45	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 2p and 17q. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013],	Translation	present in both datasets 
C12ORF65	This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix protein that appears to contribute to peptide chain termination in the mitochondrial translation machinery. Two different 1 bp deletions (resulting in the same premature stop codon)result in decreased mitochondrial translation, decreased levels of oxidative phosphorylation complexes and encepthalomyopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010],	Translation	present in both datasets 
FASTKD1	caution:It is uncertain whether Met-1 or Met-15 is the initiatorsimilarity:Belongs to the FAST kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 RAP domain	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS31	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. The 28S subunit of the mammalian mitoribosome may play a crucial and characteristic role in translation initiation. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that has also been associated with type 1 diabetes; however, its relationship to the etiology of this disease remains to be clarified. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene have been found on chromosomes 3 and 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
PTCD1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that binds leucine tRNAs and other mitochondrial RNAs and plays a role in the regulation of translation. Increased expression of this gene results in decreased mitochondrial leucine tRNA levels. Naturally occurring read-through transcription exists between upstream ATP5J2 (ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial Fo complex, subunit F2) and this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
TRIT1	Catalyzes the transfer of a dimethylallyl group onto the adenine at position 37 of both cytosolic and mitochondrial tRNAs, leading to the formation of N6-(dimethylallyl)adenosine (i(6)A)	Translation	present in both datasets 
AARS2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases play critical roles in mRNA translation by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates alanyl-tRNA. Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 8. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011],	Translation	present in both datasets 
ELAC2	Zinc phosphodiesterase, which displays some tRNA 3'- processing endonuclease activity. Probably involved in tRNA maturation, by removing a 3'-trailer from precursor tRNA	Translation	present in both datasets 
HEMK1	similarity:Belongs to the hemK family	Translation	present in both datasets 
MPV17L2	similarity:Belongs to the peroxisomal membrane protein PXMP2/4 family	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL42	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a protein identified as belonging to both the 28S and the 39S subunits. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 4q, 6p, 6q, 7p, and 15q. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011],	Translation	present in both datasets 
OSGEPL1	O-sialoglycoprotein endopeptidases specifically cleave the polypeptide backbone of membrane glycoproteins that contain clusters of O-linked sialoglycans (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS18B	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P family. The encoded protein is one of three that has significant sequence similarity to bacterial S18 proteins. The primary sequences of the three human mitochondrial S18 proteins are no more closely related to each other than they are to the prokaryotic S18 proteins. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1q and 2q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTRF1	Mitochondrial peptide chain release factor that directs the termination of translation in response to the peptide chain non-cognate termination stop codons AGG and AGA	Translation	present in both datasets 
QRSL1	Allows the formation of correctly charged Gln-tRNA(Gln) through the transamidation of misacylated Glu-tRNA(Gln) in the mitochondria. The reaction takes place in the presence of glutamine and ATP through an activated gamma-phospho-Glu-tRNA(Gln).	Translation	present in both datasets 
PARS2	This gene encodes a putative member of the class II family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. These enzymes play a critical role in protein biosynthesis by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. This protein is encoded by the nuclear genome but is likely to be imported to the mitochondrion where it is thought to catalyze the ligation of proline to tRNA molecules. Mutations have been found in this gene in some patients with Alpers syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL52	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein which has no bacterial homolog. Multiple transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms were identified through sequence analysis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
PUS1	Converts specific uridines to PSI in a number of tRNA substrates. Acts on positions 27/28 in the anticodon stem and also positions 34 and 36 in the anticodon of an intron containing tRNA. Involved in regulation of nuclear receptor activity possibly through pseudouridylation of SRA1 RNA (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
PTRH2	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial protein with two putative domains, an N-terminal mitochondrial localization sequence, and a UPF0099 domain. In vitro assays suggest that this protein possesses peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase activity, to release the peptidyl moiety from tRNA, thereby preventing the accumulation of dissociated peptidyl-tRNA that could reduce the efficiency of translation. This protein also plays a role regulating cell survival and death. It promotes survival as part of an integrin-signaling pathway for cells attached to the extracellular matrix (ECM), but also promotes apoptosis in cells that have lost their attachment to the ECM, a process called anoikos. After loss of cell attachment to the ECM, this protein is phosphorylated, is released from the mitochondria into the cytosol, and promotes caspase-independent apoptosis through interactions with transcriptional regulators. This gene has been implicated in the development and progression of tumors, and mutations in this gene have been associated with an infantile multisystem neurologic, endocrine, and pancreatic disease (INMEPD) characterized by intellectual disability, postnatal microcephaly, progressive cerebellar atrophy, hearing impairment, polyneuropathy, failure to thrive, and organ fibrosis with exocrine pancreas insufficiency (PMID: 25574476). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
PUSL1	catalytic activity:tRNA uridine = tRNA pseudouridinesimilarity:Belongs to the tRNA pseudouridine synthase truA family	Translation	present in both datasets 
METTL17	May be a component of the mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTPAP	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the DNA polymerase type-B-like family. This enzyme synthesizes the 3&apos; poly(A) tail of mitochondrial transcripts and plays a role in replication-dependent histone mRNA degradation.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011],	Translation	present in both datasets 
NSUN4	function:May have S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyl-transferase activity similarity:Belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily. RsmB/NOP family	Translation	present in both datasets 
RBFA	similarity:Belongs to the rbfA family	Translation	present in both datasets 
KARS	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. Lysyl-tRNA synthetase is a homodimer localized to the cytoplasm which belongs to the class II family of tRNA synthetases. It has been shown to be a target of autoantibodies in the human autoimmune diseases, polymyositis or dermatomyositis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
TRMT10C	Functions in mitochondrial tRNA maturation. Part of mitochondrial ribonuclease P, an enzyme composed of MRPP1/RG9MTD1, MRPP2/HSD17B10 and MRPP3/KIAA0391, which cleaves tRNA molecules in their 5'-ends	Translation	present in both datasets 
MTIF3	IF-3 binds to the 28S ribosomal subunit and shifts the equilibrum between 55S ribosomes and their 39S and 28S subunits in favor of the free subunits, thus enhancing the availability of 28S subunits on which protein synthesis initiation begins	Translation	present in both datasets 
GLYAT	Mitochondrial acyltransferase which transfers the acyl group to the N-terminus of glycine. Can conjugate a multitude of substrates to form a variety of N-acylglycines	Translation	present in both datasets 
GTPBP10	Small G proteins, such as GTPBP10, act as molecular switches that play crucial roles in the regulation of fundamental cellular processes such as protein synthesis, nuclear transport, membrane trafficking, and signal transduction (Hirano et al 2006 [PubMed 17054726]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPS36	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. The mitochondrial ribosome (mitoribosome) consists of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 3p, 4q, 8p, 11q, 12q, and 20p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
FASTKD2	This gene encodes a protein that is localized in the mitochondrial inner compartment and that may play a role in mitochondrial apoptosis. Nonsense mutations have been reported to result in cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
PNPT1	Involved in mRNA degradation. Hydrolyzes single-stranded polyribonucleotides processively in the 3'- to 5'-direction	Translation	present in both datasets 
MRPL48	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 6p. Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016],	Translation	present in both datasets 
DDX28	May be involved in RNA processing or transport. Has RNA and Mg(2+)-dependent ATPase activity	Translation	present in both datasets 
RPUSD4	similarity:Belongs to the pseudouridine synthase rluA family	Translation	present in both datasets 
QTRT1	Exchanges the guanine residue with 7-aminomethyl-7- deazaguanine in tRNAs with GU(N) anticodons (tRNA-Asp, -Asn, -His and -Tyr). After this exchange, a cyclopentendiol moiety is attached to the 7-aminomethyl group of 7-deazaguanine, resulting in the hypermodified nucleoside queuosine (Q) (7-(((4,5-cis- dihydroxy-2-cyclopenten-1-yl)amino)methyl)-7-deazaguanosine)	Translation	present in both datasets 
FASTKD5	similarity:Belongs to the FAST kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 RAP domain	Translation	present in both datasets 
PDE12	function:Enzyme that cleaves 2',5'-phosphodiester bond linking adenosines of the 5'-triphosphorylated oligoadenylates, triphosphorylated oligoadenylates referred as 2-5A modulates the 2-5A system. This enzyme degraded triphosphorylated 2-5A to produce AMP and ATP. Also cleaves 3',5'-phosphodiester bond of oligoadenylates. Play a role as a negative regulator of the The 2-5A system that is one of the major pathways for antiviral and antitumor functions induced by interferons (IFNs). Suppression of this enzyme induces reduction of viral replication in Hela cells, thus counteracting the antiviral pathway probably by inhibiting the 2-5A systemsimilarity:Belongs to the CCR4/nocturin familytissue specificity:Ubiquitous	Translation	present in both datasets 
FASTK	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase was shown to be activated rapidly during Fas-mediated apoptosis in Jurkat cells. In response to Fas receptor ligation, it phosphorylates TIA1, an apoptosis-promoting nuclear RNA-binding protein. The encoded protein is a strong inducer of lymphocyte apoptosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Other variants exist, but their full-length natures have not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation	present in both datasets 
PSTK	Specifically phosphorylates seryl-tRNA(Sec) to O- phosphoseryl-tRNA(Sec), an activated intermediate for selenocysteine biosynthesis (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
THG1L	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial protein that is induced by high levels of glucose and is associated with diabetic nephropathy. The encoded protein appears to increase mitochondrial biogenesis, which could lead to renal fibrosis. Another function of this protein is that of a guanyltransferase, adding GMP to the 5&apos; end of tRNA(His). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015],	Translation	present in both datasets 
FASTKD3	This gene encodes a member of a small family of Fas-activated serine/threonine kinase domain (FASTKD) containing proteins that share an amino terminal mitochondrial targeting domain and multiple carboxy terminal FAST domains as well as a putative RNA-binding RAP domain. The members of this family are ubiquitously expressed and are generally most abundant in mitochondria-enriched tissues such as heart, skeletal muscle and brown-adipose tissue. Some members of this protein family may play a role in apoptosis. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with components of the mitochondrial respiratory and translation networks. A pseudogene of this gene is also present on chromosome 5. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013],	Translation	present in both datasets 
NSUN3	function:May have S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyl-transferase activity sequence caution:Chimerasimilarity:Belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily. RsmB/NOP family	Translation	present in both datasets 
TRMT61B	catalytic activity:S-adenosyl-L-methionine + tRNA = S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine + tRNA containing N(1)-methyladeninesimilarity:Belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily. TrmI family	Translation	present in both datasets 
TRMT11	Catalytic subunit of an S-adenosyl-L-methionine- dependent tRNA methyltransferase complex that mediates the methylation of the guanosine nucleotide at position 10 (m2G10) in tRNAs (By similarity)	Translation	present in both datasets 
MT-RNR1	12S ribosomal RNA, mitochondrially encoded	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-RNR2	16S ribosomal RNA, mitochondrially encoded	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TA	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for alanine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TC	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for cysteine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TD	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for aspartic acid	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TE	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for glutamic acid	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TF	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for phenylalanine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TG	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for glycine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TH	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for histidine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TI	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for isoleucine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TK	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for lysine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TL1	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for leucine 1 (UUA/G)	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TL2	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for leucine 2 (CUN)	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TM	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for methionine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TN	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for asparagine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TP	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for proline	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TQ	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for glutamine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TR	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for arginine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TS1	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for serine 1 (UCN)	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TS2	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for serine 2 (AGU/C)	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TT	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for threonine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TV	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for valine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TW	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for tryptophan	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
MT-TY	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for tyrosine	Translation (MT)	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
ABCE1	Antagonizes the binding of 2-5A (5'-phosphorylated 2',5'-linked oligoadenylates) by RNase L through direct interaction with RNase L and therefore inhibits its endoribonuclease activity. May play a central role in the regulation of mRNA turnover. Antagonizes the anti-viral effect of the interferon-regulated 2-5A/RNase L pathway. May act as a chaperone for post-translational events during HIV-1 capsid assembly	Transmembrane Transport	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
VDAC1	Forms a channel through the mitochondrial outer membrane and also the plasma membrane. The channel at the outer mitochondrial membrane allows diffusion of small hydrophilic molecules; in the plasma membrane it is involved in cell volume regulation and apoptosis. It adopts an open conformation at low or zero membrane potential and a closed conformation at potentials above 30-40 mV. The open state has a weak anion selectivity whereas the closed state is cation-selective. May participate in the formation of the permeability transition pore complex (PTPC) responsible for the release of mitochondrial products that triggers apoptosis	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
ABCB8	This nuclear gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is targeted to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The encoded protein is an ATP-dependent transporter that may mediate the passage of organic and inorganic molecules out of the mitochondria. Loss of function of the related gene in mouse results in a disruption of iron homeostasis between the mitochondria and cytosol. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013],	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
VDAC2	Forms a channel through the mitochondrial outer membrane that allows diffusion of small hydrophilic molecules. The channel adopts an open conformation at low or zero membrane potential and a closed conformation at potentials above 30-40 mV. The open state has a weak anion selectivity whereas the closed state is cation- selective	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
ABCB7	Could be involved in the transport of heme from the mitochondria to the cytosol. Plays a central role in the maturation of cytosolic iron-sulfur (Fe/S) cluster-containing proteins	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
ABCB10	May mediate critical mitochondrial transport functions related to heme biosynthesis (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
PRELID2	similarity:Contains 1 PRELI/MSF1 domain	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
VDAC3	Forms a channel through the mitochondrial outer membrane that allows diffusion of small hydrophilic molecules (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
SFXN1	Might be involved in the transport of a component required for iron utilization into or out of the mitochondria	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
ABCD3	Probable transporter. The nucleotide-binding fold acts as an ATP-binding subunit with ATPase activity	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
SFXN3	Potential iron transporter	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
ABCB6	Binds heme and porphyrins and functions in their ATP- dependent uptake into the mitochondria. Plays a crucial role in heme synthesis	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
SFXN5	Transports citrate. Potential iron transporter (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
MRS2	Magnesium transporter that may mediate the influx of magnesium into the mitochondrial matrix	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
FAM210B	similarity:Contains 1 DUF1279 domain	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
NIPSNAP3A	NIPSNAP3A belongs to a family of proteins with putative roles in vesicular transport (Buechler et al 2004 [PubMed 15177564]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
SFXN2	Potential iron transporter	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
NIPSNAP3B	NIPSNAP3B belongs to a family of proteins with putative roles in vesicular trafficking (Buechler et al 2004 [PubMed 15177564]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
SFXN4	Potential iron transporter (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
ABCF2	This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. ATP-binding casette proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. Alterations in this gene may be involved in cancer progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Transmembrane Transport	present in both datasets 
OGDH	The 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: 2- oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
MDH2	Malate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible oxidation of malate to oxaloacetate, utilizing the NAD/NADH cofactor system in the citric acid cycle. The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondria and may play pivotal roles in the malate-aspartate shuttle that operates in the metabolic coordination between cytosol and mitochondria. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
CS	The protein encoded by this gene is a Krebs tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of citrate from oxaloacetate and acetyl coenzyme A. The enzyme is found in nearly all cells capable of oxidative metablism. This protein is nuclear encoded and transported into the mitochondrial matrix, where the mature form is found. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
PDHX	Required for anchoring dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) to the dihydrolipoamide transacetylase (E2) core of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complexes of eukaryotes. This specific binding is essential for a functional PDH complex	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
DLST	The 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of 3 enzymatic components: 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
FH	Also acts as a tumor suppressor	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
SUCLA2	Succinyl-CoA synthetase (SCS) is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that acts as a heterodimer, being composed of an invariant alpha subunit and a substrate-specific beta subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-specific SCS beta subunit that dimerizes with the SCS alpha subunit to form SCS-A, an essential component of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. SCS-A hydrolyzes ATP to convert succinate to succinyl-CoA. Defects in this gene are a cause of myopathic mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. A pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
IDH3A	Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the allosterically regulated rate-limiting step of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Each isozyme is a heterotetramer that is composed of two alpha subunits, one beta subunit, and one gamma subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of one isozyme of NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
IDH3B	Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the allosterically regulated rate-limiting step of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Each isozyme is a heterotetramer that is composed of two alpha subunits, one beta subunit, and one gamma subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is the beta subunit of one isozyme of NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
SUCLG1	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric enzyme succinate coenzyme A ligase. This enzyme is targeted to the mitochondria and catalyzes the conversion of succinyl CoA and ADP or GDP to succinate and ATP or GTP. Mutations in this gene are the cause of the metabolic disorder fatal infantile lactic acidosis and mitochondrial DNA depletion. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
DLD	This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. In homodimeric form, the encoded protein functions as a dehydrogenase and is found in several multi-enzyme complexes that regulate energy metabolism. However, as a monomer, this protein can function as a protease. Mutations in this gene have been identified in patients with E3-deficient maple syrup urine disease and lipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
ACO2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aconitase/IPM isomerase family. It is an enzyme that catalyzes the interconversion of citrate to isocitrate via cis-aconitate in the second step of the TCA cycle. This protein is encoded in the nucleus and functions in the mitochondrion. It was found to be one of the mitochondrial matrix proteins that are preferentially degraded by the serine protease 15(PRSS15), also known as Lon protease, after oxidative modification. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
IDH3G	Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the allosterically regulated rate-limiting step of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Each isozyme is a heterotetramer that is composed of two alpha subunits, one beta subunit, and one gamma subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is the gamma subunit of one isozyme of NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase. This gene is a candidate gene for periventricular heterotopia. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but only some of their full length natures have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
OGDHL	cofactor:Thiamine pyrophosphatesimilarity:Belongs to the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase family	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
PPTC7	catalytic activity:A phosphoprotein + H(2)O = a protein + phosphatecofactor:Magnesium or manganese induction:Up-regulated during lymphocyte activationsimilarity:Belongs to the PP2C familysimilarity:Contains 1 PP2C-like domain	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
SUCLG2	This gene encodes a GTP-specific beta subunit of succinyl-CoA synthetase. Succinyl-CoA synthetase catalyzes the reversible reaction involving the formation of succinyl-CoA and succinate. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 5 and 12. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
IDH2	Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+)-dependent isozyme is a homodimer. The protein encoded by this gene is the NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase found in the mitochondria. It plays a role in intermediary metabolism and energy production. This protein may tightly associate or interact with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
NNT	The transhydrogenation between NADH and NADP is coupled to respiration and ATP hydrolysis and functions as a proton pump across the membrane	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
MDH1	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the NAD/NADH-dependent, reversible oxidation of malate to oxaloacetate in many metabolic pathways, including the citric acid cycle. Two main isozymes are known to exist in eukaryotic cells: one is found in the mitochondrial matrix and the other in the cytoplasm. This gene encodes the cytosolic isozyme, which plays a key role in the malate-aspartate shuttle that allows malate to pass through the mitochondrial membrane to be transformed into oxaloacetate for further cellular processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. A recent study showed that a C-terminally extended isoform is produced by use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon via a stop codon readthrough mechanism, and that this isoform is localized in the peroxisomes. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes X and 6. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
IDH1	Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+)-dependent isozyme is a homodimer. The protein encoded by this gene is the NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase found in the cytoplasm and peroxisomes. It contains the PTS-1 peroxisomal targeting signal sequence. The presence of this enzyme in peroxisomes suggests roles in the regeneration of NADPH for intraperoxisomal reductions, such as the conversion of 2, 4-dienoyl-CoAs to 3-enoyl-CoAs, as well as in peroxisomal reactions that consume 2-oxoglutarate, namely the alpha-hydroxylation of phytanic acid. The cytoplasmic enzyme serves a significant role in cytoplasmic NADPH production. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013],	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
ACO1	Binds to iron-responsive elements (IRES), which are stem-loop structures found in the 5'-UTR of ferritin, and delta aminolevulinic acid synthase mRNAs, and in the 3'-UTR of transferrin receptor mRNA. Binding to the IRE element in ferritin results in the repression of its mRNA translation. Binding of the protein to the transferrin receptor mRNA inhibits the degradation of this otherwise rapidly degraded mRNA. This protein also expresses aconitase activity	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle	present in both datasets 
COQ7	Potential central metabolic regulator	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
COQ5	Converts DDMQH2 into DMQH2 (By similarity)	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
COQ9	Involved in the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q (By similarity)	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
COQ3	Ubiquinone, also known as coenzyme Q, or Q, is a critical component of the electron transport pathways of both eukaryotes and prokaryotes (Jonassen and Clarke, 2000 [PubMed 10777520]). This lipid consists of a hydrophobic isoprenoid tail and a quinone head group. The tail varies in length depending on the organism, but its purpose is to anchor coenzyme Q to the membrane. The quinone head group is responsible for the activity of coenzyme Q in the respiratory chain. The S. cerevisiae COQ3 gene encodes an O-methyltransferase required for 2 steps in the biosynthetic pathway of coenzyme Q. This enzyme methylates an early coenzyme Q intermediate, 3,4-dihydroxy-5-polyprenylbenzoic acid, as well as the final intermediate in the pathway, converting demethyl-ubiquinone to coenzyme Q. The COQ3 gene product is also capable of methylating the distinct prokaryotic early intermediate 2-hydroxy-6-polyprenyl phenol.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
COQ6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ubiH/COQ6 family. It is an evolutionarily conserved monooxygenase required for the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q10 (or ubiquinone), which is an essential component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, and one of the most potent lipophilic antioxidants implicated in the protection of cell damage by reactive oxygen species. Knockdown of this gene in mouse and zebrafish results in decreased growth due to increased apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive coenzyme Q10 deficiency-6 (COQ10D6), which manifests as nephrotic syndrome with sensorineural deafness. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012],	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
COQ4	This gene encodes a component of the coenzyme Q biosynthesis pathway. Coenzyme Q, an essential component of the electron transport chain, shuttles electrons between complexes I or II to complex III of the mitochondrial transport chain. This protein appears to play a structural role in stabilizing a complex that contains most of the coenzyme Q biosynthesis enzymes. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial disorders linked to coenzyme Q deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015],	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
COQ2	Catalyzes the prenylation of para-hydroxybenzoate (PHB) with an all-trans polyprenyl group. Mediates the second step in the final reaction sequence of coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesis, which is the condensation of the polyisoprenoid side chain with PHB	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
PDSS2	Supplies decaprenyl diphosphate, the precursor for the side chain of the isoprenoid quinones ubiquinone-10	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
PDSS1	Supplies decaprenyl diphosphate, the precursor for the side chain of the isoprenoid quinones ubiquinone-10	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis	present in both datasets 
GATD3A	This gene encodes a potential mitochondrial protein that is a member of the DJ-1/PfpI gene family. This protein is overexpressed in fetal Down syndrome brain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	Unknown MT process	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PNKD	Probable hydrolase that plays an aggravative role in the development of cardiac hypertrophy via activation of the NF-kappa- B signaling pathway (By similarity)	Unknown MT process	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
TMEM126A	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial membrane protein of unknown function. Defects in this gene are a cause of optic atrophy type 7 (OPA7). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011],	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
C8ORF82	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0598 family	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
CHCHD7	disease:A chromosomal rearrangement involving CHCHD7 may be a cause of salivary gland pleiomorphic adenomas (PA) [181030]. Pleiomorphic adenomas are the most common benign epithelial tumors of the salivary gland. Translocation t(6;8)(p21.3-22;q13) with PLAG1similarity:Belongs to the CHCHD7 familysimilarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
C16ORF91	similarity:Belongs to the CCSMST1 family	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
C5ORF63	similarity:Belongs to the glutaredoxin family. YDR286C subfamily	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
SPATA19	May have a role in spermiogenesis	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
TMEM143	protein likely involved in transmembrane transport (similarity)	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
HSDL1	caution:Although related to the SDR family, lacks the conserved active Tyr residue in position 218 which is replaced by a Phe, suggesting that it may lack oxidoreductase activitysimilarity:Belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family. 17-beta-HSD 3 subfamilytissue specificity:Highly expressed in testis and ovary. Also detected in thyroid, spinal cord, adrenal gland, heart, placenta, skeletal muscle and pancreas	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
RSAD1	May be involved in porphyrin cofactor biosynthesis (By similarity)	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
C12ORF10	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0160 (MYG1) familytissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed, with highest levels in testis	Unknown MT process	present in both datasets 
ATF5	ATF5 expression can rescue UPR(mt) signaling in atfs-1-deficient worms requiring the same UPR(mt) promoter element identified in C. elegans. Furthermore, mammalian cells require ATF5 to maintain mitochondrial activity during mitochondrial stress and promote organelle recovery. Combined, these data suggest that regulation of the UPR(mt) is conserved from worms to mammals.	UPRmt	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
DDIT3	This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negative inhibitor by forming heterodimers with other C/EBP members, such as C/EBP and LAP (liver activator protein), and preventing their DNA binding activity. The protein is implicated in adipogenesis and erythropoiesis, is activated by endoplasmic reticulum stress, and promotes apoptosis. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in myxoid liposarcomas or Ewing sarcoma. 	UPRmt	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
KDM6B	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysine-specific demethylase that specifically demethylates di- or tri-methylated lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me2 or H3K27me3). H3K27 trimethylation is a repressive epigenetic mark controlling chromatin organization and gene silencing. This protein can also demethylate non-histone proteins such as retinoblastoma protein. Through its demethylation actvity this gene influences cellular differentiation and development, tumorigenesis, inflammatory diseases, and neurodegenerative diseases. This protein has two classical nuclear localization signals at its N-terminus. 	UPRmt	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
PHF8	The protein encoded by this gene is a histone lysine demethylase that preferentially acts on histones in the monomethyl or dimethyl states. The encoded protein requires Fe(2+) ion, 2-oxoglutarate, and oxygen for its catalytic activity. The protein has an N-terminal PHD finger and a central Jumonji C domain. This gene is thought to function as a transcription activator. Defects in this gene are a cause of syndromic X-linked Siderius type intellectual disability (MRXSSD) and over-expression of this gene is associated with several forms of cancer. 	UPRmt	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SATB1	This gene encodes a matrix protein which binds nuclear matrix and scaffold-associating DNAs through a unique nuclear architecture. The protein recruits chromatin-remodeling factors in order to regulate chromatin structure and gene expression.	UPRmt	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
SATB2	This gene encodes a DNA binding protein that specifically binds nuclear matrix attachment regions. The encoded protein is involved in transcription regulation and chromatin remodeling. Defects in this gene are associated with isolated cleft palate and cognitive disability. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.	UPRmt	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only
UBL5	This gene encodes a member of a group of proteins similar to ubiquitin. The encoded protein is not thought to degrade proteins like ubiquitin but to affect their function through being bound to target proteins by an isopeptide bond. The gene product has been studied as a link to predisposition to obesity based on its expression in Psammomys obesus, the fat sand rat, which is an animal model for obesity studies. Variation in this gene was found to be significantly associated with some metabolic traits (PMID: 15331561) but not associated with childhood obesity (PMID: 19189687). 	UPRmt	mitomitoXplorer | These genes are present in mitomitoXplorer only