GeneName	Description	Process
ABHD16A	similarity:Belongs to the BAT5 family	Amino Acid Metabolism
ADO	catalytic activity:2-aminoethanethiol + O(2) = hypotaurinecofactor:Irontissue specificity:Ubiquitous, with highest expression in brain, heart and skeletal muscle (at protein level)	Amino Acid Metabolism
ASS1	catalytic activity:ATP + L-citrulline + L-aspartate = AMP + diphosphate + N(omega)-(L-arginino)succinatepathway:Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-arginine biosynthesis; L-arginine from L-ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate: step 2/3pathway:Nitrogen metabolism; urea cycle; N(omega)-(L-arginino)succinic acid from L-aspartate and L-citrulline: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the argininosuccinate synthase familysimilarity:Belongs to the argininosuccinate synthase family. Type 1 subfamilysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism
DGLUCY	similarity: D-glutamate cyclase activity, glutamate metabolic process	Amino Acid Metabolism
ETNPPL	cofactor:Pyridoxal phosphate similarity:Belongs to the class-III pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism
GLUL	catalytic activity:ATP + L-glutamate + NH(3) = ADP + phosphate + L-glutaminesimilarity:Belongs to the glutamine synthetase familysubunit:Homooctamer	Amino Acid Metabolism
KYAT3	Catalyzes the irreversible transamination of the L- tryptophan metabolite L-kynurenine to form kynurenic acid (KA). May catalyze the beta-elimination of S-conjugates and Se- conjugates of L-(seleno)cysteine, resulting in the cleavage of the C-S or C-Se bond (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
MMUT	Involved in the degradation of several amino acids, odd- chain fatty acids and cholesterol via propionyl-CoA to the tricarboxylic acid cycle (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
OXCT2B	Key enzyme for ketone body catabolism. Transfers the CoA moiety from succinate to acetoacetate. Formation of the enzyme-CoA intermediate proceeds via an unstable anhydride species formed between the carboxylate groups of the enzyme and substrate (By similarity). Probably play and important roles in the energy metabolism of spermatozoa	Amino Acid Metabolism
PHYKPL	cofactor:Pyridoxal phosphate similarity:Belongs to the class-III pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism
SQOR	similarity: The protein encoded by this gene may function in mitochondria to catalyze the conversion of sulfide to persulfides, thereby decreasing toxic concencrations of sulfide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	Amino Acid Metabolism
DBT	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Amino Acid Metabolism
AUH	Catalyzes the conversion of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA to 3- hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA. Has very low enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. Was originally identified as RNA-binding protein that binds in vitro to clustered 5'-AUUUA-3' motifs (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
BCKDHA	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Amino Acid Metabolism
ABHD11	induction:Up-regulated by rosiglitazone and down-regulated by high fat feedingsimilarity:Belongs to the AB hydrolase superfamilytissue specificity:Expressed in white adipose tissues	Amino Acid Metabolism
HIBCH	catalytic activity:3-hydroxy-2-methylpropanoyl-CoA + H(2)O = CoA + 3-hydroxy-2-methylpropanoatefunction:Hydrolyzes 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA (HIBYL-CoA), a saline catabolite. Has high activity toward isobutyryl-CoA. Could be an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase that functions in valine catabolism. Also hydrolyzes 3-hydroxypropanoyl-CoApathway:Amino-acid degradation; L-valine degradationsimilarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family	Amino Acid Metabolism
OXCT1	Key enzyme for ketone body catabolism. Transfers the CoA moiety from succinate to acetoacetate. Formation of the enzyme-CoA intermediate proceeds via an unstable anhydride species formed between the carboxylate groups of the enzyme and substrate (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
BCKDHB	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Amino Acid Metabolism
PCCA	catalytic activity:ATP + propanoyl-CoA + HCO(3)(-) = ADP + phosphate + (S)-methylmalonyl-CoAcofactor:Biotindisease:Propionic acidemia due to recessively inherited deficiency of PCCase activity often causes life-threatening ketosis and acidosispathway:Metabolic intermediate metabolism; propionyl-CoA degradation; succinyl-CoA from propionyl-CoA: step 1/3similarity:Contains 1 ATP-grasp domainsimilarity:Contains 1 biotin carboxylation domainsimilarity:Contains 1 biotinyl-binding domainsubunit:Probably a dodecamer composed of six biotin-containing alpha subunits and six beta subunits	Amino Acid Metabolism
BCKDK	catalytic activity:ATP + [3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring)] = ADP + [3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring)] phosphatefunction:Catalyzes the phosphorylation and inactivation of the branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex, the key regulatory enzyme of the valine, leucine and isoleucine catabolic pathways. Key enzyme that regulate the activity state of the BCKD complexinduction:Expression in female liver is influenced by circadian rhythmPTM:Autophosphorylatedsimilarity:Belongs to the PDK/BCKDK protein kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 histidine kinase domainsubunit:Monomertissue specificity:Ubiquitous	Amino Acid Metabolism
ACAT1	Plays a major role in ketone body metabolism (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
ETHE1	cofactor:Binds 2 zinc ions per subunitfunction:Probably plays an important role in metabolic homeostasis in mitochondria. May function as a nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling protein that binds transcription factor RELA/NFKB3 in the nucleus and exports it to the cytoplasm. Suppresses p53-induced apoptosis by preventing nuclear localization of RELAmiscellaneous:No enzymatic activity yet determinedsimilarity:Belongs to the metallo-beta-lactamase superfamily. Glyoxalase II familysubunit:Interacts with RELA	Amino Acid Metabolism
ALDH4A1	catalytic activity:(S)-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate + NAD(P)(+) + 2 H(2)O = L-glutamate + NAD(P)Hfunction:Irreversible conversion of delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C), derived either from proline or ornithine, to glutamate. This is a necessary step in the pathway interconnecting the urea and tricarboxylic acid cycles. The preferred substrate is glutamic gamma-semialdehyde, other substrates include succinic, glutaric and adipic semialdehydespathway:Amino-acid degradation; L-proline degradation into L-glutamate; L-glutamate from L-proline: step 2/2PTM:Acetylation of Lys-98, Lys-113 and Lys-401 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homodimer	Amino Acid Metabolism
IVD	catalytic activity:3-methylbutanoyl-CoA + acceptor = 3-methylbut-2-enoyl-CoA + reduced acceptorcofactor:FADpathway:Amino-acid degradation; L-leucine degradation; HMG-CoA from 3-isovaleryl-CoA: step 1/3PTM:Acetylation of Lys-76 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism
MCCC1	catalytic activity:ATP + 3-methylcrotonoyl-CoA + HCO(3)(-) = ADP + phosphate + 3-methylglutaconyl-CoAcofactor:Biotinpathway:Amino-acid degradation; L-leucine degradation; HMG-CoA from 3-isovaleryl-CoA: step 2/3similarity:Contains 1 ATP-grasp domainsimilarity:Contains 1 biotin carboxylation domainsimilarity:Contains 1 biotinyl-binding domainsubunit:Probably a dodecamer composed of six biotin-containing alpha subunits and six beta subunits	Amino Acid Metabolism
PRODH	Converts proline to delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate	Amino Acid Metabolism
HIBADH	catalytic activity:3-hydroxy-2-methylpropanoate + NAD(+) = 2-methyl-3-oxopropanoate + NADHsimilarity:Belongs to the 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homodimer	Amino Acid Metabolism
ALDH6A1	Plays a role in valine and pyrimidine metabolism. Binds fatty acyl-CoA (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
DHTKD1	The 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: 2- oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
FAHD2A	May have hydrolase activity (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
GLUD1	May be involved in learning and memory reactions by increasing the turnover of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
MUT	methylmalonyl-Coenzyme A mutase	Amino Acid Metabolism
ALDH18A1	catalytic activity:ATP + L-glutamate = ADP + L-glutamate 5-phosphatecatalytic activity:L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde + phosphate + NADP(+) = L-glutamyl 5-phosphate + NADPHenzyme regulation:The short isoform is inhibited by L-ornithine with a Ki of approximately 0.25 mm. The long isoform is insensitive to ornithine inhibition. Thus, the two amino acid insert in the long isoform abolishes feedback inhibition of P5CS activity by L-ornithinepathway:Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-proline biosynthesis; L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde from L-glutamate: step 1/2pathway:Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-proline biosynthesis; L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde from L-glutamate: step 2/2similarity:In the C-terminal section; belongs to the gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase familysimilarity:In the N-terminal section; belongs to the glutamate 5-kinase family	Amino Acid Metabolism
GLDC	The glycine cleavage system catalyzes the degradation of glycine. The P protein binds the alpha-amino group of glycine through its pyridoxal phosphate cofactor; CO(2) is released and the remaining methylamine moiety is then transferred to the lipoamide cofactor of the H protein (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
PDF	similarity: Removes the formyl group from the N-terminal Met of newly synthesized proteins (By similarity)Required for normal Golgi function (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
MCEE	catalytic activity:(R)-methylmalonyl-CoA = (S)-methylmalonyl-CoAsimilarity:Belongs to the glyoxalase I family	Amino Acid Metabolism
MCCC2	catalytic activity:ATP + 3-methylcrotonoyl-CoA + HCO(3)(-) = ADP + phosphate + 3-methylglutaconyl-CoApathway:Amino-acid degradation; L-leucine degradation; HMG-CoA from 3-isovaleryl-CoA: step 2/3similarity:Belongs to the accD/PCCB familysimilarity:Contains 1 carboxyltransferase domainsubunit:Probably a dodecamer composed of six biotin-containing alpha subunits and six beta subunits	Amino Acid Metabolism
GCAT	catalytic activity:Acetyl-CoA + glycine = CoA + 2-amino-3-oxobutanoatecofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatepathway:Amino-acid degradation; L-threonine degradation via oxydo-reductase pathway; glycine from L-threonine: step 2/2similarity:Belongs to the class-II pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase family	Amino Acid Metabolism
NIT2	Overexpression decreases the colony-forming capacity of cultured cells by arresting cells in the G2 phase of the cell cycle (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
CKMT2	catalytic activity:ATP + creatine = ADP + phosphocreatinefunction:Reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens (e.g. creatine phosphate). Creatine kinase isoenzymes play a central role in energy transduction in tissues with large, fluctuating energy demands, such as skeletal muscle, heart, brain and spermatozoamiscellaneous:Mitochondrial creatine kinase binds cardiolipinsimilarity:Belongs to the ATP:guanido phosphotransferase familysubunit:Exists as an octamer composed of four CKMT2 homodimers	Amino Acid Metabolism
HMGCS2	This enzyme condenses acetyl-CoA with acetoacetyl-CoA to form HMG-CoA, which is the substrate for HMG-CoA reductase	Amino Acid Metabolism
SUOX	catalytic activity:Sulfite + O(2) + H(2)O = sulfate + H(2)O(2)cofactor:Binds 1 protoheme groupcofactor:Molybdenum (molybdopterin)pathway:Energy metabolism; sulfur metabolismsimilarity:Contains 1 cytochrome b5 heme-binding domainsubunit:Homodimer	Amino Acid Metabolism
GLS	similarity: Catalyzes the first reaction in the primary pathway for the renal catabolism of glutamine	Amino Acid Metabolism
GATM	catalytic activity:L-arginine + glycine = L-ornithine + guanidinoacetatepathway:Amine and polyamine biosynthesis; creatine biosynthesis; creatine from L-arginine and glycine: step 1/2similarity:Belongs to the amidinotransferase familysubunit:Homodimer	Amino Acid Metabolism
BCAT1	catalytic activity:2-oxoglutaric acid + L-isoleucine = (S)-3-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid + L-glutamic acidcatalytic activity:2-oxoglutaric acid + L-valine = 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid + L-glutamic acidcatalytic activity:L-leucine + 2-oxoglutarate = 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate + L-glutamatecofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatedevelopmental stage:Highly expressed at day 9 of embryogenesis. Expression decreases to moderate levels through day 13. In the developing embryo, expressed in the brain, somites and mesenophric tubulesfunction:Catalyzes the first reaction in the catabolism of the essential branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valinesimilarity:Belongs to the class-IV pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Expressed in brain and kidney. Overexpressed in C-myc induced brain tumors, lymphomas, as well as in a teratocarcinoma cell line	Amino Acid Metabolism
AGXT2	catalytic activity:(R)-3-amino-2-methylpropanoate + pyruvate = 2-methyl-3-oxopropanoate + L-alaninecatalytic activity:L-alanine + glyoxylate = pyruvate + glycinecofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatesimilarity:Belongs to the class-III pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism
CHDH	catalytic activity:Choline + acceptor = betaine aldehyde + reduced acceptorcofactor:FADpathway:Amine and polyamine biosynthesis; betaine biosynthesis via choline pathway; betaine aldehyde from choline (cytochrome c reductase route): step 1/1PTM:Acetylation of Lys-498 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the GMC oxidoreductase family	Amino Acid Metabolism
NIT1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0012 familysimilarity:Contains 1 CN hydrolase domaintissue specificity:Detected in heart, brain, spleen, lung, skeletal muscle and testis, highest levels detected in liver and kidney	Amino Acid Metabolism
TST	Formation of iron-sulfur complexes and cyanide detoxification	Amino Acid Metabolism
PRODH2	Converts proline to delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (Probable)	Amino Acid Metabolism
AASS	Bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the first two steps in lysine degradation. The N-terminal and the C-terminal contain lysine-oxoglutarate reductase and saccharopine dehydrogenase activity, respectively	Amino Acid Metabolism
AADAT	Shows activity also towards tryptophan, aspartate and hydroxykinurenine	Amino Acid Metabolism
GCSH	The glycine cleavage system catalyzes the degradation of glycine. The H protein shuttles the methylamine group of glycine from the P protein to the T protein (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
GSTZ1	Probable bifunctional enzyme showing minimal glutathione-conjugating activity with ethacrynic acid and 7- chloro-4-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1, 3-diazole and maleylacetoacetate isomerase activity. Has also low glutathione peroxidase activity with t-butyl and cumene hydroperoxides. Is able to catalyze the glutathione dependent oxygenation of dichloroacetic acid to glyoxylic acid (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
HMGCL	catalytic activity:(S)-3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA = acetyl-CoA + acetoacetatepathway:Metabolic intermediate metabolism; HMG-CoA degradation; acetoacetic acid from HMG-CoA: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the HMG-CoA lyase familysubunit:Homodimer	Amino Acid Metabolism
ABHD10	similarity:Belongs to the AB hydrolase superfamily	Amino Acid Metabolism
BCAT2	catalytic activity:2-oxoglutaric acid + L-isoleucine = (S)-3-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid + L-glutamic acidcatalytic activity:2-oxoglutaric acid + L-valine = 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid + L-glutamic acidcatalytic activity:L-leucine + 2-oxoglutarate = 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate + L-glutamatecofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatefunction:Catalyzes the first reaction in the catabolism of the essential branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. May also function as a transporter of branched chain alpha-keto acidssimilarity:Belongs to the class-IV pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homodimer	Amino Acid Metabolism
OAT	catalytic activity:L-ornithine + a 2-oxo acid = L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde + an L-amino acidcofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatepathway:Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-proline biosynthesis; L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde from L-ornithine: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the class-III pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism
THA1	threonine aldolase 1	Amino Acid Metabolism
AGXT	Dual metabolic roles of gluconeogenesis (in the mitochondria) and glyoxylate detoxification (in the peroxisomes) (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
GLS2	Plays an important role in the regulation of glutamine catabolism (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
LAP3	catalytic activity:Release of an N-terminal amino acid, Xaa-|-Yaa-, in which Xaa is preferably Leu, but may be other amino acids including Pro although not Arg or Lys, and Yaa may be Pro. Amino acid amides and methyl esters are also readily hydrolyzed, but rates on arylamides are exceedingly lowcatalytic activity:Release of N-terminal proline from a peptidecofactor:Binds 2 zinc ions per subunit. One zinc ion is tightly bound and essential for enzyme activity, while the second metal coordination site can be occupied by zinc, magnesium or manganese to give enzymes of different activitiesfunction:Presumably involved in the processing and regular turnover of intracellular proteins. Catalyzes the removal of unsubstituted N-terminal amino acids from various peptidessimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M17 familysubunit:Homohexamer	Amino Acid Metabolism
GPT2	catalytic activity:L-alanine + 2-oxoglutarate = pyruvate + L-glutamatecofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatemiscellaneous:May be responsible for increased ALT activity in hepatic steatosispathway:Amino-acid degradation; L-alanine degradation via transaminase pathway; pyruvate from L-alanine: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the class-I pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase family. Alanine aminotransferase subfamilysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Specifically induced in fatty liver. Highly expressed in muscle, liver and white adipose tissue. Moderately expressed in brain and kidney and expressed at low levels in the heart	Amino Acid Metabolism
OXCT2A	Key enzyme for ketone body catabolism. Transfers the CoA moiety from succinate to acetoacetate. Formation of the enzyme-CoA intermediate proceeds via an unstable anhydride species formed between the carboxylate groups of the enzyme and substrate (By similarity). Probably play and important roles in the energy metabolism of spermatozoa	Amino Acid Metabolism
AMT	The glycine cleavage system catalyzes the degradation of glycine (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
MPST	Transfers a sulfur ion to cyanide or to other thiol compounds. Also has weak rhodanese activity. May have a role in cyanide degradation or in thiosulfate biosynthesis (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
ALDH5A1	catalytic activity:Succinate semialdehyde + NAD(+) + H(2)O = succinate + NADHpathway:Amino-acid degradation; 4-aminobutanoate degradationsimilarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Amino Acid Metabolism
CKMT1	catalytic activity:ATP + creatine = ADP + phosphocreatinefunction:Reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens (e.g. creatine phosphate). Creatine kinase isoenzymes play a central role in energy transduction in tissues with large, fluctuating energy demands, such as skeletal muscle, heart, brain and spermatozoamiscellaneous:Mitochondrial creatine kinase binds cardiolipinsimilarity:Belongs to the ATP:guanido phosphotransferase familysubunit:Exists as an octamer composed of four MTCK homodimers	Amino Acid Metabolism
GOT2	Facilitates cellular uptake of long-chain free fatty acids	Amino Acid Metabolism
ABAT	Catalyzes the conversion of gamma-aminobutyrate and L- beta-aminoisobutyrate to succinate semialdehyde and methylmalonate semialdehyde, respectively. Can also convert delta-aminovalerate and beta-alanine (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
NADK2	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0465 family	Amino Acid Metabolism
FAHD1	May have hydrolase activity (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
SUGCT	similarity:Belongs to the caiB/baiF CoA-transferase family	Amino Acid Metabolism
AGMAT	catalytic activity:Agmatine + H(2)O = putrescine + ureacofactor:Manganese pathway:Amine and polyamine biosynthesis; putrescine biosynthesis via agmatine pathway; putrescine from agmatine (ADC route): step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the arginase family. Agmatinase subfamily	Amino Acid Metabolism
QDPR	catalytic activity:A 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropteridine + NAD(P)(+) = a 6,7-dihydropteridine + NAD(P)Hfunction:The product of this enzyme, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH-4), is an essential cofactor for phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan hydroxylasessimilarity:Belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) familysubunit:Homodimer	Amino Acid Metabolism
KMO	catalytic activity:L-kynurenine + NADPH + O(2) = 3-hydroxy-L-kynurenine + NADP(+) + H(2)Ocofactor:FADfunction:Catalyzes the hydroxylation of L-kynurenine (L-Kyn) to form 3-hydroxy-L-kynurenine (L-3OHKyn). Required for synthesis of quinolinic acid, a neurotoxic NMDA receptor antagonist and potential endogenous inhibitor of NMDA receptor signaling in axonal targeting, synaptogenesis and apoptosis during brain development. Quinolinic acid may also affect NMDA receptor signaling in pancreatic beta cells, osteoblasts, myocardial cells, and the gastrointestinal tractpathway:Cofactor biosynthesis; NAD(+) biosynthesis; pyridine-2,3-dicarboxylate from L-kynurenine: step 1/3similarity:Belongs to the aromatic-ring hydroxylase family. KMO subfamily	Amino Acid Metabolism
PYCR2	catalytic activity:L-proline + NAD(P)(+) = 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate + NAD(P)Hpathway:Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-proline biosynthesis; L-proline from L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase familysubunit:Homodecamer; composed of 5 homodimers	Amino Acid Metabolism
MAOB	Catalyzes the oxidative deamination of biogenic and xenobiotic amines and has important functions in the metabolism of neuroactive and vasoactive amines in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues. MAOB preferentially degrades benzylamine and phenylethylamine (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
MAOA	Catalyzes the oxidative deamination of biogenic and xenobiotic amines and has important functions in the metabolism of neuroactive and vasoactive amines in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues. MAOA preferentially oxidizes biogenic amines such as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), norepinephrine and epinephrine (By similarity)	Amino Acid Metabolism
PPM1K	Regulates the mitochondrial permeability transition pore and is essential for cellular survival and development	Amino Acid Metabolism
PYCR1	catalytic activity:L-proline + NAD(P)(+) = 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate + NAD(P)Hpathway:Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-proline biosynthesis; L-proline from L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase familysubunit:Homodecamer; composed of 5 homodimers	Amino Acid Metabolism
ANP32A	Implicated in a number of cellular processes, including proliferation, differentiation, caspase-dependent and caspase- independent apoptosis, suppression of transformation (tumor suppressor), inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A, regulation of mRNA trafficking and stability in association with ELAVL1, and inhibition of acetyltransferases as part of the INHAT (inhibitor of histone acetyltransferases) complex. Plays a role in E4F1- mediated transcriptional repression	Apoptosis
APAF1	Oligomeric Apaf-1 mediates the cytochrome c-dependent autocatalytic activation of pro-caspase 9 (Apaf-3), leading to the activation of caspase-3 and apoptosis. This activation requires ATP (By similarity)	Apoptosis
BBC3	function:Essential mediator of p53-dependent and p53-independent apoptosisinduction:By DNA damage, glucocorticoid treatment, growth factor deprivation and p53similarity:Belongs to the Bcl-2 familysubcellular location:Localized to the mitochondria in order to induce cytochrome c releasesubunit:Interacts with BCL2 and BCL2L1/BCL-XL (By similarity). Interacts with MCL1 and BCL2A1	Apoptosis
BCL2L11	Induces apoptosis. The isoforms vary in cytotoxicity with isoform BimS being the most potent and isoform BimEL being the least potent	Apoptosis
BIK	similarity: Accelerates programmed cell death. Binding to the apoptosis repressors Bcl-X(L), BHRF1, Bcl-2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k protein suppresses this death-promoting activity. Does not interact with BAX	Apoptosis
BNIP1	SNARE that may be involved in targeting and fusion of Golgi-derived retrograde transport vesicles with the ER. Required for maintenance of ER network. Implicated in the suppression of cell death (By similarity)	Apoptosis
BOK	developmental stage:At E15.0, expressed in brain, liver, thymus, lung, intestinal epithelium and follicles of the whiskersfunction:May play a role in apoptosismiscellaneous:'Matador' means killer in Spanishsimilarity:Belongs to the Bcl-2 familytissue specificity:Expressed in brain, liver, lymphoid tissues and in embryonic intestinal epithelium	Apoptosis
CASP2	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Might function by either activating some proteins required for cell death or inactivating proteins necessary for cell survival. May be important in multistep carcinogenesis	Apoptosis
CASP3	similarity: Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. At the onset of apoptosis it proteolytically cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) at a '216-Asp-|-Gly-217' bond. Cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) between the basic helix-loop- helix leucine zipper domain and the membrane attachment domain. Cleaves and activates caspase-6, -7 and -9. Involved in the cleavage of huntingtin	Apoptosis
CASP7	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs). Overexpression promotes programmed cell death (By similarity)	Apoptosis
CASP9	similarity:Belongs to the peptidase C14A familysimilarity:Contains 1 CARD domain	Apoptosis
CSNK2A1	Casein kinase II is a serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins such as casein. It is involved in various cellular processes, including cell cycle control, apoptosis, and circadian rhythm. The kinase exists as a tetramer and is composed of an alpha, an alpha-prime, and two beta subunits. The alpha subunits contain the catalytic activity while the beta subunits undergo autophosphorylation. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit.	Apoptosis
CTSB	Thiol protease which is believed to participate in intracellular degradation and turnover of proteins. Has also been implicated in tumor invasion and metastasis	Apoptosis
DELE1	similarity: extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors	Apoptosis
DYNLL1	Binds and inhibits the catalytic activity of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (By similarity)May be involved in some aspects of dynein-related intracellular transport and motility. May play a role in changing or maintaining the spatial distribution of cytoskeletal structures (By similarity)	Apoptosis
MAPK1	similarity: This gene encodes a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. The activation of this kinase requires its phosphorylation by upstream kinases. Upon activation, this kinase translocates to the nucleus of the stimulated cells, where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. One study also suggests that this protein acts as a transcriptional repressor independent of its kinase activity. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein, but differing in the UTRs, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014], 	Apoptosis
MAPK3	similarity: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act in a signaling cascade that regulates various cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and cell cycle progression in response to a variety of extracellular signals. This kinase is activated by upstream kinases, resulting in its translocation to the nucleus where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis
MAPK8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is activated by various cell stimuli, and targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-early gene expression in response to cell stimuli. The activation of this kinase by tumor-necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is found to be required for TNF-alpha induced apoptosis. This kinase is also involved in UV radiation induced apoptosis, which is thought to be related to cytochrom c-mediated cell death pathway. Studies of the mouse counterpart of this gene suggested that this kinase play a key role in T cell proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. 	Apoptosis
MCL1	Involved in the regulation of apoptosis versus cell survival, and in the maintenance of viability but not of proliferation. Mediates its effects by interactions with a number of other regulators of apoptosis	Apoptosis
PACRG	function:Suppresses cell death induced by accumulation of unfolded Pael receptor (Pael-R, a substrate of Parkin). Facilitates the formation of inclusions consisting of Pael-R, molecular chaperones, protein degradation molecules and itself when proteasome is inhibitedsubunit:Forms a large molecular chaperone complex containing heat shock proteins 70 and 90 and chaperonin components. Interacts with STIP1, PARK2, GPR37, HSPA8, CCT1, CCT2, CCT3, CCT4, CCT5, CCT6A, CCT7 and CCT8	Apoptosis
RPS6KB1	Phosphorylates specifically ribosomal protein S6	Apoptosis
TMEM173	developmental stage:Expressed throughout the B-cell lineage prior to the plasma cell stage but occurs at highest levels in mature B-cells. Highly expressed in cells representing mature stages of B-cells but weakly expressed in pre-B cells, immature B cells, and memory B-cell stages. Not detected in plasma cellsfunction:Acts as a facilitator of innate immune signaling. Able to activate both NF-kappa-B and IRF3 transcription pathways to induce expression of type I interferon (IFN-alpha and IFN-beta) and exert a potent anti-viral state following expression. May be involved in translocon function, the translocon possibly being able to influence the induction of type I interferons. Also involved in transduction of apoptotic signals via its association with the major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II). Mediates death signaling via activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathwaymiscellaneous:Was named MPYS by PubMed:18559423 because the protein sequence begins by Met-Pro-Tyr-Ser residuesPTM:Phosphorylated on tyrosine residues upon MHC-II aggregationsequence caution:Translated as Leusubunit:Interacts with DDX58/RIG-I, MAVS/VISA and SSR2 (By similarity). Associates with the MHC-II complextissue specificity:Present in spleen and thymus tissue. Also present in dendritic cells (at protein level)	Apoptosis
XIAP	Apoptotic suppressor. Has E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. Mediates the proteasomal degradation of target proteins, such as caspase-3, SMAC or AIFM1. Inhibitor of caspase-3, -7 and -9. Mediates activation of MAP3K7/TAK1, leading to the activation of NF-kappa-B (By similarity)	Apoptosis
LETMD1	Involved in tumorigenesis and may function as a negative regulator of the TP53/p53	Apoptosis
GHITM	induction:By growth hormonesimilarity:Belongs to the BI1 family	Apoptosis
MTCH2	The substrate transported is not yet known. Induces mitochondrial depolarization (By similarity)	Apoptosis
AIFM1	Probable oxidoreductase that acts as a caspase- independent mitochondrial effector of apoptotic cell death. Extramitochondrial AIF induces nuclear chromatin condensation and large scale DNA fragmentation (in vitro). Binds to DNA in a sequence-independent manner	Apoptosis
ALKBH7	similarity:Belongs to the alkB family	Apoptosis
TRAP1	function:Chaperone that expresses an ATPase activitysimilarity:Belongs to the heat shock protein 90 family	Apoptosis
TRIAP1	Mediates cell survival by inhibiting activation of caspase-9 which prevents induction of apoptosis (By similarity)	Apoptosis
GFER	FAD-dependent sulfhydryl oxidase that catalyzes disulfide bond formation (By similarity)	Apoptosis
MTCH1	Potential mitochondrial transporter. May play a role in apoptosis (By similarity)	Apoptosis
APOPT1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0671 family	Apoptosis
DIABLO	Promotes apoptosis by activating caspases in the cytochrome c/Apaf-1/caspase-9 pathway. Acts by opposing the inhibitory activity of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAP)	Apoptosis
FAM162A	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0389 family	Apoptosis
PRELID1	May be important for the development of vital and immunocompetent organs (By similarity)	Apoptosis
PARL	catalytic activity:Cleaves type-1 transmembrane domains using a catalytic dyad composed of serine and histidine that are contributed by different transmembrane domainsdisruption phenotype:Mice develop normally until 4 weeks of age. They show subsequent progressive growth retardation, atrophy of muscle, spleen, and thymus as well as severe apoptosis of T and B lymphocytes leading to premature death between 8-12 weeks of age. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts lacking Parl show high susceptibility to intrinsic apoptotic signals. This defect can be complemented by Parl or a soluble form of Opa1function:Required for the control of apoptosis during postnatal growth. Essential for proteolytic processing of an antiapoptotic form of OPA1 which prevents the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c in response to intrinsic apoptoptic signalsPTM:P-beta is proteolytically processed (beta-cleavage) in a PARL-dependent mannersimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase S54 familysubcellular location:Translocated into the nucleus by an unknown mechanismsubunit:Interacts with PSEN1 and PSEN2 (By similarity). Binds OPA1	Apoptosis
HTRA2	Serine protease that shows proteolytic activity against a nonspecific substrate beta-casein. Promotes or induces cell death either by direct binding to and inhibition of BIRC proteins (also called inhibitor of apoptosis proteins, IAPs), leading to an increase in caspase activity, or by a BIRC inhibition-independent, caspase-independent and serine protease activity-dependent mechanism	Apoptosis
BAX	similarity: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein forms a heterodimer with BCL2, and functions as an apoptotic activator. This protein is reported to interact with, and increase the opening of, the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), which leads to the loss in membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. The expression of this gene is regulated by the tumor suppressor P53 and has been shown to be involved in P53-mediated apoptosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Apoptosis
BCL2L13	May promote the activation of caspase-3 and apoptosis	Apoptosis
TSPO	Responsible for the manifestation of peripheral-type benzodiazepine recognition sites and is most likely to comprise binding domains for benzodiazepines and isoquinoline carboxamides. May play a role in the transport of porphyrins and heme (By similarity). Plays a role in the transport of cholesterol across mitochondrial membranes in steroidogenic cells (By similarity)	Apoptosis
BNIP3	function:Apoptosis-inducing protein that, which can overcome BCL2 suppression. May play a role in repartitioning calcium between the two major intracellular calcium stores in association with BCL2similarity:Belongs to the NIP3 familysubunit:Homodimer. Binds to BCL2. Interacts with BNIP3L	Apoptosis
BAK1	In the presence of an appropriate stimulus, accelerates programmed cell death by binding to, and antagonizing the a repressor Bcl-2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k protein (By similarity)	Apoptosis
PMAIP1	Promotes activation of caspases and apoptosis. Promotes mitochondrial membrane changes and efflux of apoptogenic proteins from the mitochondria. Contributes to p53-dependent apoptosis after radiation exposure. Promotes proteasomal degradation of MCL1. Competes with BIM/BCL2L11 for binding to MCL1 and can displace BIM/BCL2L11 from its binding site on MCL1 (By similarity). Competes with BAK1 for binding to MCL1 and can displace BAK1 from its binding site on MCL1	Apoptosis
AIFM2	Oxidoreductase, which may play a role in mediating a TP53/p53-dependent apoptosis response. Probable oxidoreductase that acts as a caspase-independent mitochondrial effector of apoptotic cell death (By similarity). May contribute to genotoxin- induced growth arrest	Apoptosis
BNIP3L	function:Induces apoptosis. Interacts with viral and cellular anti-apoptosis proteins. Can overcome the suppressors BCL-2 and BCL-XL, although high levels of BCL-XL expression will inhibit apoptosis. May function as a tumor suppressor. Inhibits apoptosis induced by BNIP3PTM:Undergoes progressive proteolysis to an 11 kDa C-terminal fragment, which is blocked by the proteasome inhibitor lactacystinsimilarity:Belongs to the NIP3 familysubunit:Self-associates. Interacts with BNIP3 and STEAP3	Apoptosis
AIFM3	Induces apoptosis through a caspase dependent pathway. Reduces mitochondrial membrane potential (By similarity)	Apoptosis
BID	Induces caspases and apoptosis. Counters the protective effect of Bcl-2. The major proteolytic product p15 BID allows the release of cytochrome c	Apoptosis
BCL2L1	Potent inhibitor of cell death. Isoform Bcl-X(L) anti- apoptotic activity is inhibited by association with SIVA isoform 1. Inhibits activation of caspases (By similarity). Appears to regulate cell death by binding and blocking the voltage-dependent anion channnel (VDAC), thus preventing the release of the caspase activator, cytochrome c, from the mitochondrial membrane. The Bcl- X(S) isoform promotes apoptosis	Apoptosis
ARMC10	May play a role in cell survival and cell growth. May suppress the transcriptional activity of p53/TP53 (By similarity)	Apoptosis
CASP8	Most upstream protease of the activation cascade of caspases responsible for the TNFRSF6/FAS mediated and TNFRSF1A induced cell death. Binding to the adapter molecule FADD recruits it to either receptor. The resulting aggregate called death- inducing signaling complex (DISC) performs CASP8 proteolytic activation. The active dimeric enzyme is then liberated from the DISC and free to activate downstream apoptotic proteases. Proteolytic fragments of the N-terminal propeptide (termed CAP3, CAP5 and CAP6) are likely retained in the DISC. Cleaves and activates CASP3, CASP4, CASP6, CASP7, CASP9 and CASP10. May participate in the GZMB apoptotic pathways. Cleaves ADPRT. Hydrolyzes the small-molecule substrate, Ac-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-|-AMC. Likely target for the cowpox virus CRMA death inhibitory protein	Apoptosis
BCL2L2	Promotes cell survival. Blocks dexamethasone-induced apoptosis. Mediates survival of postmitotic Sertoli cells by suppressing death-promoting activity of BAX	Apoptosis
BCL2	similarity: This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks the apoptotic death of some cells such as lymphocytes. Constitutive expression of BCL2, such as in the case of translocation of BCL2 to Ig heavy chain locus, is thought to be the cause of follicular lymphoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016],	Apoptosis
BAD	domain:Intact BH3 motif is required by BIK, BID, BAK, BAD and BAX for their pro-apoptotic activity and for their interaction with anti-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 familyfunction:Promotes cell death. Successfully competes for the binding to Bcl-X(L), Bcl-2 and Bcl-W, thereby affecting the level of heterodimerization of these proteins with BAX. Can reverse the death repressor activity of Bcl-X(L), but not that of Bcl-2. Appears to act as a link between growth factor receptor signaling and the apoptotic pathwaysPTM:Phosphorylated on one or more of Ser-112, Ser-136, Ser-155 and Ser-170 in response to survival stimuli, which blocks its pro-apoptotic activity. Phosphorylation on Ser-136 or Ser-112 promotes heterodimerization with 14-3-3 proteins. This interaction then facilitates the phosphorylation at Ser-155, a site within the BH3 motif, leading to the release of Bcl-X(L) and the promotion of cell survival. Ser-136 is the major site of AKT/PKB phosphorylation, Ser-155 the major site of protein kinase A (CAPK) phosphorylationsimilarity:Belongs to the Bcl-2 familysubcellular location:Upon phosphorylation, locates to the cytoplasmsubunit:Forms heterodimers with the anti-apoptotic proteins, Bcl-X(L), Bcl-2 and Bcl-W. Also binds protein S100A10 (By similarity). The Ser-112/Ser-136 phosphorylated form binds 14-3-3 proteins	Apoptosis
CLIC4	Can insert into membranes and form poorly selective ion channels that may also transport chloride ions. Channel activity depends on the pH. Membrane insertion seems to be redox-regulated and may occur only under oxydizing conditions. Promotes cell- surface expression of HRH3 (By similarity). May play a role in angiogenesis	Apoptosis
STAR	Plays a key role in steroid hormone synthesis by enhancing the metabolism of cholesterol into pregnenolone. Transporter that binds to and transport cholesterol through the intermembrane space of the mitochondrion (Probable)	Bile Acid Synthesis
AMACR	Racemization of 2-methyl-branched fatty acid CoA esters. Responsible for the conversion of pristanoyl-CoA and C27-bile acyl-CoAs to their (S)-stereoisomers	Bile Acid Synthesis
ITPR1	alternative products:There is a combination of two alternatively spliced domains at site SI and site SII (A, B and C). Experimental confirmation may be lacking for some isoforms,domain:The receptor contains a calcium channel in its C-terminal extremity. Its large N-terminal cytoplasmic region has the ligand-binding site in the N-terminus and modulatory sites in the middle portion immediately upstream of the channel regionfunction:Intracellular channel that mediates calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum following stimulation by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphatemiscellaneous:Calcium appears to inhibit ligand binding to the receptor, most probably by interacting with a distinct calcium-binding protein which then inhibits the receptorPTM:Phosphorylated by cAMP kinase. Phosphorylation prevents the ligand-induced opening of the calcium channelsPTM:Phosphorylated on tyrosine residuessimilarity:Belongs to the InsP3 receptor familysimilarity:Contains 5 MIR domainssubunit:Homotetramer. Interacts with TRPC4. The PPXXF motif binds HOM1, HOM2 and HOM3. Interacts with RYR1, RYR2, ITPR1, SHANK1 and SHANK3. Part of cGMP kinase signaling complex at least composed of ACTA2/alpha-actin, CNN1/calponin H1, PLN/phospholamban, PRKG1 and ITPR1 (By similarity). Interacts with ERP44 in a pH-, redox state-and calcium-dependent manner which results in the inhibition the calcium channel activity. The strength of this interaction inversely correlates with calcium concentration. Interacts with AHCYL1 and MRVI1	Calcium Signaling & Transport
ITPR2	domain:The receptor contains a calcium channel in its C-terminal extremity. Its large N-terminal cytoplasmic region has the ligand-binding site in the N-terminus and modulatory sites in the middle portion immediately upstream of the channel regionfunction:Receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, a second messenger that mediates the release of intracellular calcium. Isoform 3 has neither inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding activity nor calcium releasing activityPTM:Phosphorylated on tyrosine residuessimilarity:Belongs to the InsP3 receptor familysimilarity:Contains 5 MIR domainssubunit:Homotetramertissue specificity:Isoforms 1 and 3 are widely expressed. Isoform 2 is found in skeletal muscle and heart	Calcium Signaling & Transport
ITPR3	domain:The receptor contains a calcium channel in its C-terminal extremity. Its large N-terminal cytoplasmic region has the ligand-binding site in the N-terminus and modulatory sites in the middle portion immediately upstream of the channel regionfunction:Receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, a second messenger that mediates the release of intracellular calciumPTM:Phosphorylated on tyrosine residuessimilarity:Belongs to the InsP3 receptor familysimilarity:Contains 5 MIR domainssubunit:Homotetramer. Interacts with TRPC1, TRPC3 and TRPC4 (By similarity). Interacts with OPRS1	Calcium Signaling & Transport
MAIP1	similarity: Promotes activation of caspases and apoptosis. Promotes mitochondrial membrane changes and efflux of apoptogenic proteins from the mitochondria. Contributes to p53-dependent apoptosis after radiation exposure. Promotes proteasomal degradation of MCL1. Competes with BAK1 for binding to MCL1 and can displace BAK1 from its binding site on MCL1 (By similarity). Competes with BIM/BCL2L11 for binding to MCL1 and can displace BIM/BCL2L11 from its binding site on MCL1	Calcium Signaling & Transport
MCUB	similarity: similarity:Belongs to the CCDC109 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport
MICU3	miscellaneous:Binds calcium similarity:Contains 3 EF-hand domains	Calcium Signaling & Transport
PACS2	function:Multifunctional sorting protein that controls the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria communication, including the apposition of mitochondria with the ER and ER homeostasis. In addition, in response to apoptic inducer, translocates BIB to mitochondria, which initiates a sequence of events including the formation of mitochondrial truncated BID, the release of cytochrome c, the activation of caspase-3 thereby causing cell death. May also involved in ion channel traficking, directing acidic cluster-containing ion channels to distict subcellular compartementssimilarity:Belongs to the PACS familysubunit:Interacts with BID and PKD2	Calcium Signaling & Transport
PML	Probable transcription factor. May play an important role in recruitment of ELF4 into PML nuclear bodies	Calcium Signaling & Transport
SLC8B1	Transports Ca(2+) in exchange for either Li(+) or Na(+), explaining how Li(+) catalyzes Ca(2+) exchange. In contrast to other members of the family its function is independent of K(+) (By similarity)	Calcium Signaling & Transport
LETM1	sequence caution:Contaminating sequence. Potential poly-A sequencesimilarity:Contains 1 EF-hand domainsimilarity:Contains 1 LETM1 domain	Calcium Signaling & Transport
SLC25A12	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial aspartate and glutamate carrier. May have a function in the urea cycle (By similarity)	Calcium Signaling & Transport
SLC25A13	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial aspartate and glutamate carrier. May have a function in the urea cycle	Calcium Signaling & Transport
SMDT1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0466 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport
HINT2	domain:The histidine triad, also called HIT motif, forms part of the binding loop for the alpha-phosphate of purine mononucleotidefunction:Probable hydrolasesimilarity:Belongs to the HINT familysimilarity:Contains 1 HIT domain	Calcium Signaling & Transport
CCDC90B	PTM:Phosphorylated upon DNA damage, probably by ATM or ATRsimilarity:Belongs to the CCDC90 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport
MCUR1	similarity:Belongs to the CCDC90 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport
TMEM65	similarity: TMEM65 mutation severely affected mitochondrial content and respiration rate in dermal fibroblasts.	Calcium Signaling & Transport
MCU	similarity:Belongs to the CCDC109 family	Calcium Signaling & Transport
MICU2	caution:It is unsure if this protein binds calcium as none of the 4 EF-hand domains seem to contain a canonical calcium-binding sitesimilarity:Contains 4 EF-hand domains	Calcium Signaling & Transport
LETM2	caution:Despite its name, it does not contain any EF-hand domainssimilarity:Contains 1 LETM1 domain	Calcium Signaling & Transport
MICU1	May induce T helper 1-mediated autoreactivity, which is accompanied by the release of IFNG (By similarity)	Calcium Signaling & Transport
EFHD1	developmental stage:In the cerebral cortex, at birth, confined in the Purkinje cell layer (PCL) and in cerebellar nuclei. Not detected in the external germinal layer (EGL). At P5 and P10, predominantly found in the PCL and internal germinal layer (IGL). Not detected in the EGL. At P10 and P20, up-regulated. At P20, expression similar to that of the adult cerebellumsimilarity:Contains 2 EF-hand domainstissue specificity:Highest expression in testis, followed by ovary, kidney, cerebrum, cerebellum, heart, liver, and spleen. In the cerebrum and cerebellum, undetectable at embryonic stages, expression increases after birth up to adult stage. In adult CNS, detected in neurons of the cerebellum, cerebrum and hippocampus formation, including dentate gyrus and Cornu Ammonis, but not in the white matter. In the testis, expressed in spermatocytes, but not in spermatogonia nor in interstitial cells. In ovary, found predominantly in mural granulosa cells and those of the cumulus oophorus. In kidney, expressed in collecting ducts, but not in glomeruli. Not detected in skeletal muscle	Calcium Signaling & Transport
TCHP	May act as a 'capping' or 'branching' protein for keratin filaments in the cell periphery. May regulate K8/K18 filament and desmosome organization mainly at the apical or peripheral regions of simple epithelial cells (By similarity)	Calcium Signaling & Transport
CDS1	Provides CDP-diacylglycerol an important precursor for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns), phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin. Overexpression may amplify cellular signaling responses from cytokines. May also play an important role in the signal transduction mechanism of retina and neural cells (By similarity)	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis
LCLAT1	Possesses both lysophosphatidylinositol acyltransferase (LPIAT) and lysophosphatidylglycerol acyltransferase (LPGAT) activities. Recognizes both monolysocardiolipin and dilysocardiolipin as substrates with a preference for linoleoyl-CoA and oleoyl-CoA as acyl donors. Acts as a remodeling enzyme for cardiolipin, a major membrane polyglycerophospholipid. Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid (PA) with a relatively low activity. Required for establishment of the hematopoietic and endothelial lineages.	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis
PTPM1	similarity: Protein phosphatase that specifically mediates dephosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins, thereby playing an essential role in ATP production. Has probably a preference for proteins phosphorylated on Ser and/or Thr residues compared to proteins phosphorylated on Tyr residues. Probably involved in regulation of insulin secretion in pancreatic beta cells (By similarity)	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis
TAZ	similarity: This gene encodes a protein that is expressed at high levels in cardiac and skeletal muscle. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a number of clinical disorders including Barth syndrome, dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), hypertrophic DCM, endocardial fibroelastosis, and left ventricular noncompaction (LVNC). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. A long form and a short form of each of these isoforms is produced; the short form lacks a hydrophobic leader sequence and may exist as a cytoplasmic protein rather than being membrane-bound. Other alternatively spliced transcripts have been described but the full-length nature of all these transcripts is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis
CRLS1	Catalyzes the reversible phosphatidyl group transfer from one phosphatidylglycerol molecule to another to form cardiolipin (CL) (diphosphatidylglycerol) and glycerol	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis
PGS1	Functions in the biosynthesis of the anionic phospholipids phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin (By similarity)	Cardiolipin Biosynthesis
ACOT7	catalytic activity:Palmitoyl-CoA + H(2)O = CoA + palmitatedevelopmental stage:Detected in the brain as early as embryonic day (E) 11.5. The level was low until E12.5, but promptly elevated to a peak 7 days after birth. Thereafter, it declined somewhat and reached a steady-state level in adulthood. These changes in BACH expression were approximately reflected in the palmitoyl-CoA hydrolyzing activity in the developing mouse brain, and the time course was quite similar to that of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) expression. Induced during embryogenesis in association with neuronal differentiation, and persists after terminal differentiation into neurons in postnatal stages, resulting in the constitutive high expression of BACH in the adult brain in a neuron-specific mannerfunction:Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. May play an important physiological function in brain. May play a regulatory role by modulating the cellular levels of fatty acyl-CoA ligands for certain transcription factors as well as the substrates for fatty acid metabolizing enzymes, contributing to lipid homeostasis. Has broad specificity, active towards fatty acyl-CoAs with chain-lengths of C8-C18. Has a maximal activity toward palmitoyl-CoAsimilarity:Contains 2 acyl coenzyme A hydrolase domainssubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Widely expressed with highest levels in brain. High levels also found in thymus, large intestine and testis. Negligible in muscle and adipose tissue. In the central and peripheral nervous systems, displays a predominantly neuronal localization with highest expression in cell bodies and neurites	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSL5	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Utilizes a wide range of saturated fatty acids with a preference for C16-C18 unsaturated fatty acids (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSM4	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ECHS1	catalytic activity:(3S)-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA = trans-2(or 3)-enoyl-CoA + H(2)Ofunction:Straight-chain enoyl-CoA thioesters from C4 up to at least C16 are processed, although with decreasing catalytic ratepathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid beta-oxidationPTM:Acetylation of Lys-101 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase familysubunit:Homohexamer; dimer of trimers	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
MECR	Catalyzes the reduction of trans-2-enoyl-CoA to acyl-CoA with chain length from C6 to C16 in an NADPH-dependent manner with preference to medium chain length substrate. May have a role in the mitochondrial synthesis of fatty acids (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
MCAT	Catalyzes the transfer of a malonyl moiety from malonyl- CoA to the free thiol group of the phosphopantetheine arm of the mitochondrial ACP protein (NDUFAB1). This suggests the existence of the biosynthesis of fatty acids in mitochondrias (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ECHDC3	similarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ECHDC2	similarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ECH1	function:Isomerization of 3-trans,5-cis-dienoyl-CoA to 2-trans,4-trans-dienoyl-CoApathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid beta-oxidationsimilarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase familysubunit:Homohexamer	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
CBR4	similarity:Belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
PTGES2	prostaglandin E synthase 2	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSM1	Functions as GTP-dependent lipoate-activating enzyme that generates the substrate for lipoyltransferase (By similarity). Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
H2-KE6	Uses estradiol as its preferred substrate	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSM5	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
THEM4	Modulates AKT1 activity by regulating its phosphorylation state (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACOT13	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Has acyl-CoA thioesterase activity towards medium (C12) and long-chain (C18) fatty acyl-CoA substrates. Can also hydrolyze 3- hydroxyphenylacetyl-CoA (in vitro)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ECHDC1	similarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
HSD17B4	hydroxysteroid (17-beta) dehydrogenase 4	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACOT2	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Most active on substrates with chain lengths ranging from C14-C20 (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSM3	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSL6	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Plays an important role in fatty acid metabolism in brain and the acyl-CoAs produced may be utilized exclusively for the synthesis of the brain lipid (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
OXSM	May play a role in the biosynthesis of lipoic acid as well as longer chain fatty acids required for optimal mitochondrial function (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSL1	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses oleate, arachidonate, eicosapentaenoate and docosahexaenoate as substrates (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
FASN	fatty acid synthase	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACSM2	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4- unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Biosynthesis & Elongation
ACAT2	catalytic activity:2 acetyl-CoA = CoA + acetoacetyl-CoAsimilarity:Belongs to the thiolase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACAT3	similarity:Belongs to the thiolase family	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACSBG2	Mediates activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Able to activate long-chain fatty acids. Also able to activate very long-chain fatty acids; however, the relevance of such activity is unclear in vivo. Has increased ability to activate oleic and linoleic acid. May play a role in spermatogenesis (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACSL3	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses myristate, laurate, arachidonate and eicosapentaenoate as substrates (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
HADHA	catalytic activity:(3S)-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA = trans-2(or 3)-enoyl-CoA + H(2)Ocatalytic activity:(S)-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA + NAD(+) = 3-oxoacyl-CoA + NADHfunction:Bifunctional subunitpathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid beta-oxidationPTM:Acetylation of Lys-569 and Lys-728 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase familysimilarity:In the central section; belongs to the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase familysimilarity:In the N-terminal section; belongs to the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase familysubunit:Octamer of 4 alpha (HADHA) and 4 beta (HADHB) subunits	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACADS	Description: EC 1.3.99.3 [validated, MUID:94102742]; catalyzes the first reaction in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids,	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACADM	This enzyme is specific for acyl chain lengths of 4 to 16	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
CPT2	catalytic activity:Palmitoyl-CoA + L-carnitine = CoA + L-palmitoylcarnitinesimilarity:Belongs to the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
HADH	Plays an essential role in the mitochondrial beta- oxidation of short chain fatty acids. Exerts it highest activity toward 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACADL	catalytic activity:Acyl-CoA + acceptor = 2,3-dehydroacyl-CoA + reduced acceptorcofactor:FADmiscellaneous:A number of straight-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenases of different substrate specificities are present in mammalian tissuespathway:Lipid metabolism; mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidationsimilarity:Belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACADSB	Has greatest activity toward short branched chain acyl- CoA derivative such as (s)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, and 2-methylhexanoyl-CoA as well as toward short straight chain acyl-CoAs such as butyryl-CoA and hexanoyl-CoA. Can use valproyl- CoA as substrate and may play a role in controlling the metabolic flux of valproic acid in the development of toxicity of this agent (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACADVL	Active toward esters of long-chain and very long chain fatty acids such as palmitoyl-CoA, mysritoyl-CoA and stearoyl-CoA. Can accomodate substrate acyl chain lengths as long as 24 carbons, but shows little activity for substrates of less than 12 carbons (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACAA2	catalytic activity:Acyl-CoA + acetyl-CoA = CoA + 3-oxoacyl-CoApathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid metabolismsimilarity:Belongs to the thiolase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
CRAT	Carnitine acetylase is specific for short chain fatty acids. Carnitine acetylase seems to affect the flux through the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. It may be involved as well in the transport of acetyl-CoA into mitochondria	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACAD8	Has very high activity toward isobutyryl-CoA. Is an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase that functions in valine catabolism (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
GCDH	Catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of glutaryl-CoA to crotonyl-CoA and CO(2) in the degradative pathway of L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine, and L-tryptophan metabolism. It uses electron transfer flavoprotein as its electron acceptor	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ALDH2	catalytic activity:An aldehyde + NAD(+) + H(2)O = an acid + NADHfunction:Is capable of converting retinaldehyde to retinoic acidinduction:By retinoic acid; 3-5 fold increasepathway:Alcohol metabolism; ethanol degradation; acetate from ethanol: step 2/2similarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ALDH9A1	aldehyde dehydrogenase 9, subfamily A1	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACAD10	similarity:Belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
DECR1	Auxiliary enzyme of beta-oxidation. It participates in the metabolism of unsaturated fatty enoyl-CoA esters having double bonds in both even- and odd-numbered positions. Catalyzes the NADP-dependent reduction of 2,4-dienoyl-CoA to yield trans-3- enoyl-CoA (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ECI1	Able to isomerize both 3-cis and 3-trans double bonds into the 2-trans form in a range of enoyl-CoA species	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACAD9	Has a dehydrogenase activity on palmitoyl-CoA (C16:0) and stearoyl-CoA (C18:0). It is three times more active on palmitoyl-CoA then on stearoyl-CoA. Has little activity on octanoyl-CoA (C8:0), butyryl-CoA (C4:0) or isovaleryl-CoA (5:0) (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
CPT1A	catalytic activity:Palmitoyl-CoA + L-carnitine = CoA + L-palmitoylcarnitineenzyme regulation:Inhibitors such as malonyl-CoA interact with its catalytic domain and not with an associated regulatory componentpathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid beta-oxidationsimilarity:Belongs to the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ECI2	Able to isomerize both 3-cis and 3-trans double bonds into the 2-trans form in a range of enoyl-CoA species	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ALDH1B1	catalytic activity:An aldehyde + NAD(+) + H(2)O = an acid + NADHfunction:ALDHs play a major role in the detoxification of alcohol-derived acetaldehyde. They are involved in the metabolism of corticosteroids, biogenic amines, neurotransmitters, and lipid peroxidationpathway:Alcohol metabolism; ethanol degradation; acetate from ethanol: step 2/2similarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
HADHB	catalytic activity:Acyl-CoA + acetyl-CoA = CoA + 3-oxoacyl-CoApathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid beta-oxidationPTM:Acetylation of Lys-202 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the thiolase familysubunit:Octamer of 4 alpha (HADHA) and 4 beta (HADHB) subunits	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACAD11	alternative products:Additional isoforms seem to exist,developmental stage:In gastrulation-stage embryos, it is confined to the node between 7.5 and 8.25 dpc In sections of 14.5 and 16.5 dpc. embryos, it is strongly expressed in neural tissue (brain and ganglions). Also weakly expressed included in kidney tubules, retina, respiratory epithelium, biliary tract and liver. In the adult kidney, it is weakly but specifically expressed in distal tubules located at the cortico-medullary border, which corresponds to the site of cyst formation in mice lacking Nphp3. Expressed in retina and liverdisease:Defects in Nphp3 may be the cause of polycystic kidney disease (pcy). Pcy is a recessive disorder causing chronic renal failure. The Pcy phenotype can be slowed by diet modification such as protein restriction, administration of soy-based proteins, administration of methylprednisolone or treatment with V2R antagonist. In contrast administration of bicarbonate/citrate has no effectfunction:May participate in mechanosensation in the primary cilium of kidney cellssequence caution:Translated as stopsimilarity:Belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase familysimilarity:Contains 11 TPR repeatssubunit:Interacts with NPHP1	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ALDH3A2	catalytic activity:An aldehyde + NAD(+) + H(2)O = an acid + NADHsimilarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
CPT1B	catalytic activity:Palmitoyl-CoA + L-carnitine = CoA + L-palmitoylcarnitinepathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid beta-oxidationsimilarity:Belongs to the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACACB	similarity: ACC-beta may be involved in the provision of malonyl-CoA or in the regulation of fatty acid oxidation, rather than fatty acid biosynthesis. Carries out three functions: biotin carboxyl carrier protein, biotin carboxylase and carboxyltransferase	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
CPT1C	catalytic activity:Palmitoyl-CoA + L-carnitine = CoA + L-palmitoylcarnitinepathway:Lipid metabolism; fatty acid beta-oxidationsimilarity:Belongs to the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase familytissue specificity:Expressed predominantly in brain and testis	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
ACSL4	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses arachidonate and eicosapentaenoate as substrates	Fatty Acid Degradation & Beta-oxidation
HDHD5	similarity: glycerophospholipid biosynthetic process	Fatty Acid Metabolism
BDH1	catalytic activity:(R)-3-hydroxybutanoate + NAD(+) = acetoacetate + NADHenzyme regulation:Requires phosphatidylcholine as an allosteric activator for enzymatic activityPTM:Acetylation of Lys-132 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) familysubunit:Homotetramer	Fatty Acid Metabolism
PCCB	catalytic activity:ATP + propanoyl-CoA + HCO(3)(-) = ADP + phosphate + (S)-methylmalonyl-CoApathway:Metabolic intermediate metabolism; propionyl-CoA degradation; succinyl-CoA from propionyl-CoA: step 1/3similarity:Belongs to the accD/PCCB familysimilarity:Contains 1 carboxyltransferase domainsubunit:Probably a dodecamer composed of six biotin-containing alpha subunits and six beta subunitstissue specificity:Broadly expressed. Most abundantly expressed in the kidney, liver, small intestine and stomach	Fatty Acid Metabolism
ACSF3	Acyl-CoA synthases catalyze the initial reaction in fatty acid metabolism, by forming a thioester with CoA. May have some preference toward very-long-chain substrates (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Metabolism
MLYCD	catalytic activity:Malonyl-CoA = acetyl-CoA + CO(2)function:Catalyzes the conversion of malonyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA. In the fatty acid biosynthesis MCD selectively removes malonyl-CoA and thus assures that methyl-malonyl-CoA is the only chain elongating substrate for fatty acid synthase and that fatty acids with multiple methyl side chains are producedpathway:Metabolic intermediate biosynthesis; acetyl-CoA biosynthesis; acetyl-CoA from malonyl-CoA: step 1/1	Fatty Acid Metabolism
PNPLA8	Calcium-independent phospholipase A2, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the sn-2 position of glycerophospholipids, PtdSer and to a lower extent PtdCho. Cleaves membrane phospholipids (By similarity)	Fatty Acid Metabolism
ACSF2	Acyl-CoA synthases catalyze the initial reaction in fatty acid metabolism, by forming a thioester with CoA. Has some preference toward medium-chain substrates. Plays a role in adipodyte differentiation	Fatty Acid Metabolism
LYPLA1	Hydrolyzes fatty acids from S-acylated cysteine residues in proteins such as trimeric G alpha proteins or HRAS. Also has low lysophospholipase activity	Fatty Acid Metabolism
LYPLAL1	similarity:Belongs to the AB hydrolase 2 family	Fatty Acid Metabolism
TMLHE	This gene encodes the protein trimethyllysine dioxygenase which is the first enzyme in the carnitine biosynthesis pathway. Carnitine play an essential role in the transport of activated fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein converts trimethyllysine into hydroxytrimethyllysine.	Fatty Acid Metabolism
ACOT9	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Active on long chain acyl-CoAs	Fatty Acid Metabolism
ACOT10	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Active on long chain acyl-CoAs	Fatty Acid Metabolism
AGK	Lipid kinase that can phosphorylate both monoacylglycerol and diacylglycerol to form lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and phosphatidic acid (PA), respectively. Does not phosphorylate sphingosine. Overexpression increases the formation and secretion of LPA, resulting in transactivation of EGFR and activation of the downstream MAPK signaling pathway, leading to increased cell growth	Fatty Acid Metabolism
AK157302	Involved in the assembly of mitochondrial iron-sulfur proteins. Probably involved in the binding of an intermediate of Fe/S cluster assembly (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
BOLA3	similarity:Belongs to the bolA/yrbA family	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
CIAO1	function:Seems to specifically modulate the transactivation activity of WT1similarity:Belongs to the WD repeat CIA1 familysimilarity:Contains 7 WD repeatssubunit:Interacts with WT1	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
CIAO2A	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0195 family; iron-sulfur cluster assembly, protein maturation by [4Fe-4S] cluster transfer	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
CIAO2B	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0195 family; iron-sulfur cluster assembly, protein maturation by [4Fe-4S] cluster transfer	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
CIAPIN1	Probably required during hematopoiesis to mediate antiapoptotic effects of various cytokines. Confers resistance to apoptosis when overexpressed	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
MMS19	May play a role in nucleotide excision repair (NER) and RNA polymerase II (POL II) transcription by interacting with ERCC2/XPD and ERCC3/XPB helicases, both subunits of NER- transcription factor TFIIH. May also function as a transcriptional coactivator of estrogen receptor (ER). May be involved in regulation of ER activity by bridging TFIIH with ER or may facilitate TFIIH-mediated phosphorylation of ER in specific promoters and cell types (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
NARF	PTM:Phosphorylated upon DNA damage, probably by ATM or ATRsimilarity:Belongs to the NARF familysubunit:Interacts with LMNA and binds to the farnesylated C-terminal domain	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
NUBP1	Implicated in the regulation of centrosome duplication	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
NUBP2	May contribute to formation of bipolar spindles	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
ISCA2	Involved in the assembly of mitochondrial iron-sulfur proteins. Probably involved in the binding of an intermediate of Fe/S cluster assembly (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
ISCA1	Involved in the assembly of mitochondrial iron-sulfur proteins. Probably involved in the binding of an intermediate of Fe/S cluster assembly (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
IBA57	similarity:Belongs to the gcvT family. CAF17 subfamily	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
NFS1	Catalyzes the removal of elemental sulfur from cysteine to produce alanine. It supplies the inorganic sulfur for iron- sulfur (Fe-S) clusters. May be involved in the biosynthesis of molybdenum cofactor (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
FDX1	Adrenodoxin transfers electrons from adrenodoxin reductase to the cholesterol side chain cleavage cytochrome P450	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
FXN	Probably involved in iron homeostasis. Anti-apoptotic protein which prevents mitochondrial damage and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
ISCU	Involved in the assembly or repair of [Fe-S] clusters that are present in iron-sulfur proteins. Binds iron (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
NFU1	Iron-sulfur cluster scaffold protein which can assemble [4Fe-2S] clusters and deliver them to target proteins (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
LYRM4	May be involved in mitochondrial iron-sulfur protein biosynthesis (By similarity)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
GLRX5	developmental stage:Ubiquitously expressed at 7.5 dpc. At 8.5 dpc, preferential expression in yolk sac blood islands. Progressive down-regulation in maturing primitive red cells between 10.5 and 12.5 dpc. High expression in fetal liver at 12.5 dpcsimilarity:Belongs to the glutaredoxin family. Monothiol subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 glutaredoxin domain	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
FDXR	Serves as the first electron transfer protein in all the mitochondrial P450 systems. Including cholesterol side chain cleavage in all steroidogenic tissues, steroid 11-beta hydroxylation in the adrenal cortex, 25-OH-vitamin D3-24 hydroxylation in the kidney, and sterol C-27 hydroxylation in the liver	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
BOLA1	Acts as a mitochondrial iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster assembly factor that facilitates (Fe-S) cluster insertion into a subset of mitochondrial proteins (By similarity). Probably acts together with the monothiol glutaredoxin GLRX5 (PubMed:27532772). May protect cells against oxidative stress (PubMed:22746225).	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
LYRM5	LYR motif containing 5	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
FDX1L	cofactor:Binds 1 2Fe-2S clustersimilarity:Belongs to the adrenodoxin/putidaredoxin familysimilarity:Contains 1 2Fe-2S ferredoxin-type domain	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
HSCB	function:May act as a co-chaperone in iron-sulfur cluster assembly in mitochondriasimilarity:Belongs to the hscB familysimilarity:Contains 1 J domain	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
LYRM2	LYR motif containing 2	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
SLC25A28	Mitochondrial iron transporter that mediates iron uptake. Probably required for heme synthesis of hemoproteins and Fe-S cluster assembly in non-erythroid cells. The iron delivered into the mitochondria, presumably as Fe(2+), is then probably delivered to ferrochelatase to catalyze Fe(2+) incorporation into protoprophyrin IX to make heme (Probable)	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
SLC25A37	Mitochondrial iron transporter that specifically mediates iron uptake in developing erythroid cells, thereby playing an essential role in heme biosynthesis. The iron delivered into the mitochondria, presumably as Fe(2+), is then probably delivered to ferrochelatase to catalyze Fe(2+) incorporation into protoprophyrin IX to make heme	Fe-S Cluster Biosynthesis
DHFR	Dihydrofolate reductase converts dihydrofolate into tetrahydrofolate, a methyl group shuttle required for the de novo synthesis of purines, thymidylic acid, and certain amino acids. While the functional dihydrofolate reductase gene has been mapped to chromosome 5, multiple intronless processed pseudogenes or dihydrofolate reductase-like genes have been identified on separate chromosomes. Dihydrofolate reductase deficiency has been linked to megaloblastic anemia. 	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
MTHFSL	catalytic activity:ATP + 5-formyltetrahydrofolate = ADP + phosphate + 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolatecofactor:Magnesiumsimilarity:Belongs to the 5-formyltetrahydrofolate cyclo-ligase familysubunit:Monomer	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
MTHFD1L	May provide the missing metabolic reaction required to link the mitochondria and the cytoplasm in the mammalian model of one-carbon folate metabolism in embryonic an transformed cells complementing thus the enzymatic activities of MTHFD2	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
SHMT2	Interconversion of serine and glycine (By similarity)	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
MTHFD2	catalytic activity:5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + H(2)O = 10-formyltetrahydrofolatecatalytic activity:5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate + NAD(+) = 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + NADHcofactor:Magnesiummiscellaneous:This NAD-dependent bifunctional enzyme has very different kinetic properties than the larger NADP-dependent trifunctional enzyme and is unique in that it requires formation of an enzyme-magnesium complex to allow binding of NADsimilarity:Belongs to the tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/cyclohydrolase familysubunit:Homodimer	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
ALDH1L2	catalytic activity:10-formyltetrahydrofolate + NADP(+) + H(2)O = tetrahydrofolate + CO(2) + NADPHsimilarity:Contains 1 acyl carrier domainsimilarity:In the C-terminal section; belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. ALDH1L subfamilysimilarity:In the N-terminal section; belongs to the GART family	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
ALDH1L1	catalytic activity:10-formyltetrahydrofolate + NADP(+) + H(2)O = tetrahydrofolate + CO(2) + NADPHsimilarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase familysimilarity:Contains 1 acyl carrier domainsimilarity:In the C-terminal section; belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. ALDH1L subfamilysimilarity:In the N-terminal section; belongs to the GART family	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
SLC25A32	Transports folate across the inner membranes of mitochondria (By similarity)	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
MTHFD2L	similarity: catalytic activity:5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + H(2)O = 10-formyltetrahydrofolatecatalytic activity:5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate + NAD(+) = 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + NADHcofactor:Magnesiumpathway:One-carbon metabolism; tetrahydrofolate pathwaysequence caution:Contaminating sequence. Sequence of unknown origin in the N-terminal partsimilarity:Belongs to the tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/cyclohydrolase family	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
MTHFS	catalytic activity:ATP + 5-formyltetrahydrofolate = ADP + phosphate + 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolatecofactor:Magnesiumsimilarity:Belongs to the 5-formyltetrahydrofolate cyclo-ligase familysubunit:Monomer	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
PTS	Involved in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin, an essential cofactor of aromatic amino acid hydroxylases. Catalyzes the transformation of 7,8-dihydroneopterin triphosphate into 6- pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
MTHFD1	catalytic activity:5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + H(2)O = 10-formyltetrahydrofolatecatalytic activity:5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate + NADP(+) = 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate + NADPHcatalytic activity:ATP + formate + tetrahydrofolate = ADP + phosphate + 10-formyltetrahydrofolatedisruption phenotype:Knockout mice have revealed Mthfd1l as a monofunctional enzyme having only formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase activity and lacking methenyl-THF dehydrogenase and cyclohydrolase activitiesdomain:This trifunctional enzyme consists of two major domains: an N-terminal part containing the methylene-THF dehydrogenase and cyclohydrolase activities and a larger C-terminal part containing formyl-THF synthetase activitypathway:One-carbon metabolism; tetrahydrofolate pathwaysimilarity:In the C-terminal section; belongs to the formate--tetrahydrofolate ligase familysimilarity:In the N-terminal section; belongs to the tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/cyclohydrolase familysubunit:Homodimer	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
FPGS	Conversion of folates to polyglutamate derivatives. This allows tissues to concentrate folate at higher levels than in plasma	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
SHMT1	serine hydroxymethyltransferase 1 (soluble)	Folate & Pterin Metabolism
AKR1B3	catalytic activity:Alditol + NAD(P)(+) = aldose + NAD(P)Hfunction:Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of a wide variety of carbonyl-containing compounds to their corresponding alcohols with a broad range of catalytic efficienciessimilarity:Belongs to the aldo/keto reductase familysubunit:Monomertissue specificity:Abundant in the testis, skeletal muscle and kidney	Fructose Metabolism
ALDH1A1	catalytic activity:Retinal + NAD(+) + H(2)O = retinoate + NADHfunction:In addition to the activity on acetaldehyde and related substrates, is also involved in the oxidation of aldehydes derived from biogenic amines such as epinephrine and norepinephrine, as well as the aldehydes generated via lipid peroxidation. Binds free retinal and cellular retinol-binding protein-bound retinal. Can convert/oxidize retinaldehyde to retinoic acidpathway:Cofactor metabolism; retinol metabolismsimilarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Expressed in the liver, lung, and testis. Apparently not expressed at detectable levels in kidney, stomach, ovary, heart, and brain	Fructose Metabolism
ALDOB	catalytic activity:D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate = glycerone phosphate + D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphatemiscellaneous:In vertebrates, three forms of this ubiquitous glycolytic enzyme are found, aldolase A in muscle, aldolase B in liver and aldolase C in brainpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 4pathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 4/4similarity:Belongs to the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Fructose Metabolism
KHK	catalytic activity:ATP + D-fructose = ADP + D-fructose 1-phosphateenzyme regulation:Requires potassium. Inhibition by ADPpathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; fructose metabolismsimilarity:Belongs to the carbohydrate kinase pfkB family	Fructose Metabolism
SORD	Oxidizes sorbitol and other polyols such as xylitol, D- mannitol, L-iditol	Fructose Metabolism
TKFC	Catalyzes both the phosphorylation of dihydroxyacetone and the splitting of ribonucleoside diphosphate-X compounds among which FAD is the best substrate (By similarity)	Fructose Metabolism
GLYCTK	catalytic activity:ATP + (R)-glycerate = ADP + 3-phospho-(R)-glyceratesimilarity:Belongs to the glycerate kinase type-2 familytissue specificity:Expressed in the hippocampus, callus, brain, cerebellum, renal cortex interstitial cells, epithelium of interlobular bile duct and skeletal muscle	Fructose Metabolism
ALDOA	catalytic activity:D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate = glycerone phosphate + D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphatemiscellaneous:In vertebrates, three forms of this ubiquitous glycolytic enzyme are found, aldolase A in muscle, aldolase B in liver and aldolase C in brainpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 4pathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 4/4similarity:Belongs to the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
ALDOC	catalytic activity:D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate = glycerone phosphate + D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphatedevelopmental stage:Expression begins in the first week of postnatal lifemiscellaneous:In vertebrates, three forms of this ubiquitous glycolytic enzyme are found, aldolase A in muscle, aldolase B in liver and aldolase C in brainpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 4pathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 4/4similarity:Belongs to the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase familysubunit:Homotetramertissue specificity:Expressed exclusively in Purkinje cells in bands running from anterior to posterior across most of the cerebellum. Expressed at higher levels in the brains of BSE-infected animals	Glycolysis
ENO1	catalytic activity:2-phospho-D-glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate + H(2)Ocofactor:Magnesium. Required for catalysis and for stabilizing the dimerdevelopmental stage:During ontogenesis, there is a transition from the alpha/alpha homodimer to the alpha/beta heterodimer in striated muscle cells, and to the alpha/gamma heterodimer in nerve cells. In embryonic muscle, ENO1 is highly expressed until E17. Decreased levels from P5function:Multifunctional enzyme that, as well as its role in glycolysis, plays a part in various processes such as growth control, hypoxia tolerance and allergic responses (By similarity). May also function in the intravascular and pericellular fibrinolytic system due to its ability to serve as a receptor and activator of plasminogen on the cell surface of several cell-types such as leukocytes and neurons. Stimulates immunoglobulin productionpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; pyruvate from D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate: step 4/5similarity:Belongs to the enolase familysubcellular location:Can translocate to the plasma membrane in either the homodimeric (alpha/alpha) or heterodimeric (alpha/gamma) form (By similarity). ENO1 is localized to the M-bandsubunit:Mammalian enolase is composed of 3 isozyme subunits, alpha, beta and gamma, which can form homodimers or heterodimers which are cell-type and development-specific. ENO1 interacts with PLG in the neuronal plasma membrane and promotes its activation. The C-terminal lysine is required for this binding (By similarity). In vitro, interacts with several glycolytic enzymes including PKM2, PGM, CKM and aldolase. Also binds troponin, in vitrotissue specificity:The alpha/alpha homodimer is expressed in embryo and in most adult tissues. The alpha/beta heterodimer and the beta/beta homodimer are found in striated muscle, and the alpha/gamma heterodimer and the gamma/gamma homodimer in neurons. In striated muscle, expression of ENO1 appears to be independent of fiber type	Glycolysis
ENO2	catalytic activity:2-phospho-D-glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate + H(2)Ocofactor:Magnesium. Required for catalysis and for stabilizing the dimerdevelopmental stage:During ontogenesis, there is a transition from the alpha/alpha homodimer to the alpha/beta heterodimer in striated muscle cells, and to the alpha/gamma heterodimer in nerve cellsfunction:Has neurotrophic and neuroprotective properties on a broad spectrum of central nervous system (CNS) neurons. Binds, in a calcium-dependent manner, to cultured neocortical neurons and promotes cell survivalpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; pyruvate from D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate: step 4/5similarity:Belongs to the enolase familysubcellular location:Can translocate to the plasma membrane in either the homodimeric (alpha/alpha) or heterodimeric (alpha/gamma) formsubunit:Mammalian enolase is composed of 3 isozyme subunits, alpha, beta and gamma, which can form homodimers or heterodimers which are cell-type and development-specifictissue specificity:The alpha/alpha homodimer is expressed in embryo and in most adult tissues. The alpha/beta heterodimer and the beta/beta homodimer are found in striated muscle, and the alpha/gamma heterodimer and the gamma/gamma homodimer in neurons	Glycolysis
ENO3	catalytic activity:2-phospho-D-glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate + H(2)Ocofactor:Magnesium. Required for catalysis and for stabilizing the dimerdevelopmental stage:During ontogenesis, there is a transition from the alpha/alpha homodimer to the alpha/beta heterodimer in striated muscle cells, and to the alpha/gamma heterodimer in nerve cells. In hindleg muscle, first expressed at E15 after which, levels increase sharply between E15 and E17. A steep prenatal rise in expression accompanies the formation of secondary myofibers and the development of innervation. High levels continue throughout newborn and adult stages. Beginning at postnatal day 5, a second sharp increase in expression correlates with the definitive specialization of the myofibers. Later in development, mainly expressed in fast-twitch fibers. In cardiac muscle, first expressed in the embryo in the cardiac tubefunction:Appears to have a function in striated muscle development and regenerationinduction:Levels decrease in degenerating myofibers, and increase with their regenerationpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; pyruvate from D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate: step 4/5similarity:Belongs to the enolase familysubcellular location:Localized to the Z line. Some colocalization with CKM at M-bandsubunit:Mammalian enolase is composed of 3 isozyme subunits, alpha, beta and gamma, which can form homodimers or heterodimers which are cell-type and development-specific. In vitro, interacts with several glycolytic enzymes including PKM2, PGM, CKM and ALDO. Also binds PLG and troponin, in vitro. Interacts with PNKDtissue specificity:The alpha/alpha homodimer is expressed in embryo and in most adult tissues. The alpha/beta heterodimer and the beta/beta homodimer are found in striated muscle, and the alpha/gamma heterodimer and the gamma/gamma homodimer in neurons. In striated muscle, the fiber-type order of ENO3 expression is IIB > IIX > IIA > I	Glycolysis
FBP1	catalytic activity:D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate + H(2)O = D-fructose 6-phosphate + phosphatecofactor:Binds 3 magnesium ions per subunitenzyme regulation:Subject to complex allosteric regulation. The enzyme can assume an active R-state, or an inactive T-state. Intermediate conformations may exist. AMP acts as allosteric inhibitor. AMP binding affects the turnover of bound substrate and not the affinity for substrate. Fructose-2,6-biphosphate acts as competitive inhibitor. Fructose-2,6-biphosphate and AMP have synergistic effectspathway:Carbohydrate biosynthesis; gluconeogenesissimilarity:Belongs to the FBPase class 1 familysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
FBP2	catalytic activity:D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate + H(2)O = D-fructose 6-phosphate + phosphatecofactor:Binds 3 magnesium ions per subunitenzyme regulation:Subject to complex allosteric regulation. The enzyme can assume an active R-state, or an inactive T-state. Intermediate conformations may exist. AMP acts as allosteric inhibitor. Fructose-2,6-biphosphate acts as competitive inhibitorfunction:May be involved in early differentiationinduction:By retinoic acidpathway:Carbohydrate biosynthesis; gluconeogenesissimilarity:Belongs to the FBPase class 1 familysubunit:Homotetramertissue specificity:Placenta and adult intestine	Glycolysis
G6PC	Hydrolyzes glucose-6-phosphate to glucose in the endoplasmic reticulum. Forms with the glucose-6-phosphate transporter (SLC37A4/G6PT) the complex responsible for glucose production through glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. Hence, it is the key enzyme in homeostatic regulation of blood glucose levels	Glycolysis
GAPDHS	May play an important role in regulating the switch between different pathways for energy production during spermiogenesis and in the spermatozoon. Required for sperm motility and male fertility	Glycolysis
GCK	Catalyzes the initial step in utilization of glucose by the beta-cell and liver at physiological glucose concentration. Pancreatic glucokinase plays an important role in modulating insulin secretion. Hepatic glucokinase helps to facilitate the uptake and conversion of glucose by acting as an insulin-sensitive determinant of hepatic glucose usage	Glycolysis
HK3	catalytic activity:ATP + D-hexose = ADP + D-hexose 6-phosphatedomain:The N- and C-terminal halves of this hexokinase show extensive sequence similarity to each other. The catalytic activity is associated with the C-terminus while regulatory function is associated with the N-terminusenzyme regulation:Hexokinase is an allosteric enzyme inhibited by its product Glc-6-Pmiscellaneous:In vertebrates there are four major glucose-phosphorylating isoenzymes, designated hexokinase I, II, III and IV (glucokinase)pathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; hexose metabolismsimilarity:Belongs to the hexokinase familysubunit:Monomer	Glycolysis
HKDC1	catalytic activity:ATP + D-hexose = ADP + D-hexose 6-phosphatepathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; hexose metabolismsimilarity:Belongs to the hexokinase family	Glycolysis
LDHA	catalytic activity:(S)-lactate + NAD(+) = pyruvate + NADHpathway:Fermentation; pyruvate fermentation to lactate; (S)-lactate from pyruvate: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamilysimilarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamily. LDH familysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
LDHB	catalytic activity:(S)-lactate + NAD(+) = pyruvate + NADHpathway:Fermentation; pyruvate fermentation to lactate; (S)-lactate from pyruvate: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamily. LDH familysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
LDHC	catalytic activity:(S)-lactate + NAD(+) = pyruvate + NADHfunction:Possible role in sperm motilitypathway:Fermentation; pyruvate fermentation to lactate; (S)-lactate from pyruvate: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamilysimilarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamily. LDH familysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
PCK1	Catalyzes the conversion of oxaloacetate (OAA) to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), the rate-limiting step in the metabolic pathway that produces glucose from lactate and other precursors derived from the citric acid cycle (By similarity)	Glycolysis
PFKL	catalytic activity:ATP + D-fructose 6-phosphate = ADP + D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphatecofactor:Magnesiumenzyme regulation:Allosteric enzyme activated by ADP, AMP, or fructose bisphosphate and inhibited by ATP or citratepathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 3/4similarity:Belongs to the phosphofructokinase family. Two domains subfamilysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
PFKM	catalytic activity:ATP + D-fructose 6-phosphate = ADP + D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphatecofactor:Magnesiumenzyme regulation:Allosteric enzyme activated by ADP, AMP, or fructose bisphosphate and inhibited by ATP or citratepathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 3/4similarity:Belongs to the phosphofructokinase family. Two domains subfamilysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
PFKP	catalytic activity:ATP + D-fructose 6-phosphate = ADP + D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphatecofactor:Magnesiumenzyme regulation:Allosteric enzyme activated by ADP, AMP, or fructose bisphosphate and inhibited by ATP or citratepathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 3/4similarity:Belongs to the phosphofructokinase family. Two domains subfamilytissue specificity:Expression is constant during tumor growth and markedly decreases when cell proliferation stops	Glycolysis
PGAM1	Interconversion of 3- and 2-phosphoglycerate with 2,3- bisphosphoglycerate as the primer of the reaction. Can also catalyze the reaction of EC 5.4.2.4 (synthase) and EC 3.1.3.13 (phosphatase), but with a reduced activity	Glycolysis
PGAM2	Interconversion of 3- and 2-phosphoglycerate with 2,3- bisphosphoglycerate as the primer of the reaction. Can also catalyze the reaction of EC 5.4.2.4 (synthase) and EC 3.1.3.13 (phosphatase), but with a reduced activity	Glycolysis
PGK1	catalytic activity:ATP + 3-phospho-D-glycerate = ADP + 3-phospho-D-glyceroyl phosphatepathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; pyruvate from D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate: step 2/5similarity:Belongs to the phosphoglycerate kinase familysubunit:Monomer	Glycolysis
PGK2	catalytic activity:ATP + 3-phospho-D-glycerate = ADP + 3-phospho-D-glyceroyl phosphatepathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; pyruvate from D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate: step 2/5similarity:Belongs to the phosphoglycerate kinase familysubunit:Monomer	Glycolysis
PKM	catalytic activity:ATP + pyruvate = ADP + phosphoenolpyruvatecofactor:Magnesiumcofactor:Potassiumenzyme regulation:Isoform M2 is allosterically activated by D-fructose 1,6-biphosphate (FBP). Inhibited by oxalate and 3,3',5-triiodo-L-thyronine (T3)function:Glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphoryl group from phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) to ADP, generating ATPmiscellaneous:There are 4 isozymes of pyruvate kinase in mammals: L, R, M1 and M2. L type is major isozyme in the liver, R is found in red cells, M1 is the main form in muscle, heart and brain, and M2 is found in early fetal tissuespathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; pyruvate from D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate: step 5/5PTM:Phosphorylated upon DNA damage, probably by ATM or ATRsimilarity:Belongs to the pyruvate kinase familysubunit:Monomer and homotetramer. Exists as a monomer in the absence of FBP, and reversibly associates to form a homotetramer in the presence of FBP. The monomeric form binds T3. Tetramer formation induces pyruvate kinase activity. Interacts with HERC1	Glycolysis
SLC2A1	developmental stage:Levels decline 3-fold between days 7.5 and 12.5 of gestation. At 7.5 dpc, expressed more strongly in extraembryonic tissues than in the embryo proper. Expressed in amnion, chorion, and ectoplacental cone. In the yolk sac, expressed more strongly in the mesoderm layer than the ectoderm. Expression fairly widespread in the embryo at 8.5 dpc, but by 10.5 dpc, expression is down-regulated and observed in the eye and the spinal cordfunction:Facilitative glucose transporter. This isoform may be responsible for constitutive or basal glucose uptake. Has a very broad substrate specificity; can transport a wide range of aldoses including both pentoses and hexosesPTM:Phosphorylated upon DNA damage, probably by ATM or ATRsimilarity:Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Sugar transporter (TC 2.A.1.1) family. Glucose transporter subfamilysubcellular location:Localizes primarily at the cell surface	Glycolysis
SLC2A2	function:Facilitative glucose transporter. This isoform likely mediates the bidirectional transfer of glucose across the plasma membrane of hepatocytes and is responsible for uptake of glucose by the beta cells; may comprise part of the glucose-sensing mechanism of the beta cell. May also participate with the Na(+)/glucose cotransporter in the transcellular transport of glucose in the small intestine and kidneyPTM:N-glycosylated; required for stability and retention at the cell surface of pancreatic beta cellssimilarity:Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Sugar transporter (TC 2.A.1.1) family. Glucose transporter subfamilytissue specificity:In embryo, expressed in endoderm layer of yolk sac and liver primordium	Glycolysis
SLC2A3	function:Facilitative glucose transporter. Probably a neuronal glucose transportersimilarity:Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Sugar transporter (TC 2.A.1.1) family. Glucose transporter subfamilytissue specificity:Highly expressed in brain	Glycolysis
SLC2A4	Mitochondrial carrier protein involved in transmembrane transport	Glycolysis
SLC2A5	function:Cytochalasin B-sensitive carrier. Seems to function primarily as a fructose transportersimilarity:Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Sugar transporter (TC 2.A.1.1) family. Glucose transporter subfamily	Glycolysis
PCX	Pyruvate carboxylase catalyzes a 2-step reaction, involving the ATP-dependent carboxylation of the covalently attached biotin in the first step and the transfer of the carboxyl group to pyruvate in the second. Catalyzes in a tissue specific manner, the initial reactions of glucose (liver, kidney) and lipid (adipose tissue, liver, brain) synthesis from pyruvate	Glycolysis
GPI1	catalytic activity:D-glucose 6-phosphate = D-fructose 6-phosphatefunction:Besides it's role as a glycolytic enzyme, mammalian GPI can function as a tumor-secreted cytokine and an angiogenic factor (AMF) that stimulates endothelial cell motility. GPI is also a neurotrophic factor (Neuroleukin) for spinal and sensory neuronspathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 2pathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and glycerone phosphate from D-glucose: step 2/4similarity:Belongs to the GPI familysubunit:Homodimer in the catalytically active form, monomer in the secreted form	Glycolysis
HK2	catalytic activity:ATP + D-hexose = ADP + D-hexose 6-phosphatedomain:The N- and C-terminal halves of this hexokinase show extensive sequence similarity to each other. The catalytic activity is associated with the C-terminus while regulatory function is associated with the N-terminusenzyme regulation:Hexokinase is an allosteric enzyme inhibited by its product Glc-6-Pmiscellaneous:In vertebrates there are four major glucose-phosphorylating isoenzymes, designated hexokinase I, II, III and IV (glucokinase)pathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; hexose metabolismsimilarity:Belongs to the hexokinase familysubunit:Monomer	Glycolysis
LDHAL6B	catalytic activity:(S)-lactate + NAD(+) = pyruvate + NADHpathway:Fermentation; pyruvate fermentation to lactate; (S)-lactate from pyruvate: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamilysimilarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamily. LDH family	Glycolysis
GAPDH	This gene encodes a member of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. The encoded protein was originally identified as a key glycolytic enzyme that converts D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (G3P) into 3-phospho-D-glyceroyl phosphate. Subsequent studies have assigned a variety of additional functions to the protein including nitrosylation of nuclear proteins, the regulation of mRNA stability, and acting as a transferrin receptor on the cell surface of macrophage. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Many pseudogenes similar to this locus are found throughout the mouse genome. 	Glycolysis
HK1	catalytic activity:ATP + D-hexose = ADP + D-hexose 6-phosphatedevelopmental stage:Isoform HK1-SA is first expressed during meiosis and continues to be present in postmeiotic germ cells while isoform HK1-SB is present only in postmeiotic germ cellsdomain:The N- and C-terminal halves of this hexokinase show extensive sequence similarity to each other. The catalytic activity is associated with the C-terminus while regulatory function is associated with the N-terminusenzyme regulation:Hexokinase is an allosteric enzyme inhibited by its product Glc-6-Pmiscellaneous:In vertebrates there are four major glucose-phosphorylating isoenzymes, designated hexokinase I, II, III and IV (glucokinase)pathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; hexose metabolismPTM:Isoform HK1-SC is tyrosine-phosphorylatedsimilarity:Belongs to the hexokinase familysubcellular location:Isoform HK1-SC is an integral membrane proteinsubunit:Monomertissue specificity:In rapidly growing tumor cells exhibiting high glucose catabolic rates, isoform HK1 is markedly elevated. Isoform HK1-SA, isoform HK1-SB and isoform HK1-SC are found only in spermatogenic cells. Isoform HK1-SC is detected in round spermatids, condensing spermatids and mature sperm where it is found in the head membranes, mitochondria of the midpiece and the fibrous sheath of the flagellum	Glycolysis
TPI1	catalytic activity:D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate = glycerone phosphatepathway:Carbohydrate biosynthesis; gluconeogenesispathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate from glycerone phosphate: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the triosephosphate isomerase familysubunit:Homodimer	Glycolysis
PKLR	catalytic activity:ATP + pyruvate = ADP + phosphoenolpyruvatecofactor:Divalent metal cationscofactor:Magnesiumcofactor:Potassiummiscellaneous:There are 4 isozymes of pyruvate kinase in mammals: L, R, M1 and M2. L type is major isozyme in the liver, R is found in red cells, M1 is the main form in muscle, heart and brain, and M2 is found in early fetal tissuespathway:Carbohydrate degradation; glycolysis; pyruvate from D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate: step 5/5similarity:Belongs to the pyruvate kinase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Glycolysis
UROD	Catalyzes the decarboxylation of four acetate groups of uroporphyrinogen-III to yield coproporphyrinogen-III (By similarity)	Heme Biosynthesis
UROS	catalytic activity:Hydroxymethylbilane = uroporphyrinogen III + H(2)Opathway:Porphyrin metabolism; protoporphyrin-IX biosynthesis; coproporphyrinogen-III from 5-aminolevulinate: step 3/4subunit:Monomer	Heme Biosynthesis
FECH	Catalyzes the ferrous insertion into protoporphyrin IX (By similarity)Catalyzes the ferrous insertion into protoporphyrin IX	Heme Biosynthesis
ALAS1	catalytic activity:Succinyl-CoA + glycine = 5-aminolevulinate + CoA + CO(2)cofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatemiscellaneous:There are two delta-ALA synthetase in vertebrates: an erythroid- specific form and one (housekeeping) which is expressed in all tissuespathway:Porphyrin metabolism; protoporphyrin-IX biosynthesis; 5-aminolevulinate from glycine: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the class-II pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homodimer	Heme Biosynthesis
CPOX	catalytic activity:Coproporphyrinogen-III + O(2) + 2 H(+) = protoporphyrinogen-IX + 2 CO(2) + 2 H(2)Opathway:Porphyrin metabolism; protoporphyrin-IX biosynthesis; protoporphyrinogen-IX from coproporphyrinogen-III (O2 route): step 1/1PTM:Acetylation of Lys-360 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the aerobic coproporphyrinogen-III oxidase familytissue specificity:Erythroid cells and non erythroid cells such as liver	Heme Biosynthesis
ALAS2	catalytic activity:Succinyl-CoA + glycine = 5-aminolevulinate + CoA + CO(2)cofactor:Pyridoxal phosphatemiscellaneous:There are two delta-ALA synthetase in vertebrates: an erythroid- specific form and one (housekeeping) which is expressed in all tissuespathway:Porphyrin metabolism; protoporphyrin-IX biosynthesis; 5-aminolevulinate from glycine: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the class-II pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase familysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Erythroid specific	Heme Biosynthesis
PPOX	Catalyzes the 6-electron oxidation of protoporphyrinogen-IX to form protoporphyrin-IX	Heme Biosynthesis
HMBS	Tetrapolymerization of the monopyrrole PBG into the hydroxymethylbilane pre-uroporphyrinogen in several discrete steps	Heme Biosynthesis
FTMT	catalytic activity:4 Fe(2+) + 4 H(+) + O(2) = 4 Fe(3+) + 2 H(2)Ofunction:Stores iron in a soluble, non-toxic, readily available form. Important for iron homeostasis. Has ferroxidase activity. Iron is taken up in the ferrous form and deposited as ferric hydroxides after oxidationsimilarity:Belongs to the ferritin familysimilarity:Contains 1 ferritin-like diiron domainsubunit:Homo-oligomer of 24 subunits. The functional molecule is roughly spherical and contains a central cavity into which the polymeric mineral iron core is deposited	Heme Biosynthesis
AU015836	Unknown	Import & Sorting
CMC4	similarity: This gene was identified by involvement in some t(X;14) translocations associated with mature T-cell proliferations. This region has a complex gene structure, with a common promoter and 5&apos; exon spliced to two different sets of 3&apos; exons that encode two different proteins. This gene represents the downstream 8 kDa protein that localizes to mitochondria.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009],	Import & Sorting
MTX3	Could function in transport of proteins into the mitochondrion (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM29	similarity: protein import into mitochondrial matrix	Import & Sorting
TOMM20L	similarity:Belongs to the Tom20 family	Import & Sorting
PMPCB	catalytic activity:Release of N-terminal transit peptides from precursor proteins imported into the mitochondrion, typically with Arg in position P2cofactor:Binds 1 zinc ion per subunitfunction:Cleaves presequences (transit peptides) from mitochondrial protein precursorssimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M16 familysubunit:Heterodimer of alpha and beta subunits	Import & Sorting
GRPEL1	function:Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent mannerfunction:Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. Seems to control the nucleotide-dependent binding of mitochondrial HSP70 to substrate proteinssimilarity:Belongs to the grpE familysubunit:Probable component of the PAM complex at least composed of a mitochondrial HSP70 protein, GRPEL1 or GRPEL2, TIMM44, TIMM16/MAGMAS and TIMM14/DNAJC19. Binds to HSP70, HSC70 and HSJ1B	Import & Sorting
PMPCA	catalytic activity:Release of N-terminal transit peptides from precursor proteins imported into the mitochondrion, typically with Arg in position P2caution:Does not seem to have a protease activity as it lack the zinc-binding sitefunction:Cleaves presequences (transit peptides) from mitochondrial protein precursorssimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M16 familysubunit:Heterodimer of alpha and beta subunits	Import & Sorting
TIMM10	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. May also be required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space (By similarity)Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space. The TIMM8-TIMM13 complex mediates the import of proteins such as TIMM23, SLC25A12/ARALAR1 and SLC25A13/ARALAR2, while the predominant TIMM9-TIMM10 70 kDa complex mediates the import of much more proteins (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM50	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM9	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. May also be required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
SAMM50	May be required for the assembly pathway of mitochondrial outer membrane proteins (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM13	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space. The TIMM8-TIMM13 complex mediates the import of proteins such as TIMM23, SLC25A12/ARALAR1 and SLC25A13/ARALAR2, while the predominant TIMM9-TIMM10 70 kDa complex mediates the import of much more proteins (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM44	Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. Recruits mitochondrial HSP70 to drive protein translocation into the matrix using ATP as an energy source	Import & Sorting
TIMM8B	Probable mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
CMC2	similarity:Belongs to the CMC1 family	Import & Sorting
MTX2	Involved in transport of proteins into the mitochondrion	Import & Sorting
MIPEP	Cleaves proteins, imported into the mitochondrion, to their mature size (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TOMM40L	Potential channel-forming protein implicated in import of protein precursors into mitochondria (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TOMM7	Required for assembly and stability of the TOM complex (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
PPIF	PPIases accelerate the folding of proteins. It catalyzes the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM17A	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Import & Sorting
TIMM22	Essential core component of the TIM22 complex, a complex that mediates the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. In the TIM22 complex, it constitutes the voltage-activated and signal-gated channel. Forms a twin-pore translocase that uses the membrane potential as external driving force in 2 voltage-dependent steps (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TOMM22	Central receptor component of the translocase of the outer membrane of mitochondria (TOM complex) responsible for the recognition and translocation of cytosolically synthesized mitochondrial preproteins. Together with the peripheral receptor TOM20 functions as the transit peptide receptor and facilitates the movement of preproteins into the translocation pore (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
AFG3L1	AFG3(ATPase family gene 3)-like 1 (yeast)	Import & Sorting
MTX1	Involved in transport of proteins into the mitochondrion. Essential for embryonic development	Import & Sorting
HSPE1	Eukaryotic CPN10 homolog which is essential for mitochondrial protein biogenesis, together with CPN60. Binds to CPN60 in the presence of Mg-ATP and suppresses the ATPase activity of the latter	Import & Sorting
TAMM41	May be involved in the translocation of transit peptide- containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TOMM40	Channel-forming protein essential for import of protein precursors into mitochondria (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM21	May participate in the translocation of transit peptide- containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
DNLZ	similarity:Contains 1 DNL-type zinc finger	Import & Sorting
CHCHD4	Required for the import and folding of small cysteine- containing proteins (small Tim) in the mitochondrial intermembrane space (IMS). Probably acts by forming a redox cycle with GFER/ERV1 that involves a disulfide relay system. Precursor proteins to be imported into the IMS are translocated in their reduced form into the mitochondria. The oxidized form of MIA40 forms a transient intermolecular disulfide bridge with the reduced precursor protein, resulting in oxidation of the precursor protein that now contains an intramolecular disulfide bond and is able to undergo folding in the IMS (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
IMMP1L	Catalyzes the removal of transit peptides required for the targeting of proteins from the mitochondrial matrix, across the inner membrane, into the inter-membrane space. Known to process the nuclear encoded protein DIABLO (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM17B	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Import & Sorting
TIMM23	Essential component of the TIM23 complex, a complex that mediates the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Import & Sorting
TIMM8A1	Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space. The TIMM8-TIMM13 complex mediates the import of proteins such as TIMM23, SLC25A12/ARALAR1 and SLC25A13/ARALAR2, while the predominant TIMM9-TIMM10 70 kDa complex mediates the import of much more proteins (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
DNAJC15	similarity:Contains 1 J domain	Import & Sorting
GRPEL2	function:Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent mannerfunction:Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. Seems to control the nucleotide-dependent binding of mitochondrial HSP70 to substrate proteins. Stimulates ATPase activity of mt-HSP70. May also serve to modulate the interconversion of oligomeric (inactive) and monomeric (active) forms of mt-HSP70similarity:Belongs to the grpE familysubunit:Probable component of the PAM complex at least composed of a mitochondrial HSP70 protein, GRPEL1 or GRPEL2, TIMM44, TIMM16/MAGMAS and TIMM14/DNAJC19tissue specificity:Ubiquitous	Import & Sorting
IMMP2L	Catalyzes the removal of transit peptides required for the targeting of proteins from the mitochondrial matrix, across the inner membrane, into the inter-membrane space. Known to process the nuclear encoded protein DIABLO (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
YME1L1	Putative ATP-dependent protease which plays a role in mitochondrial protein metabolism (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM10B	Component of the TIM22 complex, a complex that mediates the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. The TIM22 complex forms a twin- pore translocase that uses the membrane potential as external driving force. In the TIM22 complex, it may act as a docking point for the soluble 70 kDa complex that guides the target proteins in transit through the aqueous mitochondrial intermembrane space (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
LONP2	lon peptidase 2, peroxisomal	Import & Sorting
TIMMDC1	similarity: tissue specificity:Generalized expression enhanced in heart and skeletal muscle	Import & Sorting
TOMM6	similarity:Belongs to the Tom6 familysubunit:Forms part of the preprotein translocase complex of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM complex) which consists of at least 7 different proteins (TOMM5, TOMM6, TOMM7, TOMM20, TOMM22, TOMM40 and TOMM70)	Import & Sorting
TOMM70A	Receptor that accelerates the import of all mitochondrial precursor proteins (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TIMM8A2	Putative mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the mitochondrial intermembrane space (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
CHCHD5	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Import & Sorting
PAM16	Probable component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. May be required to regulate the ATP- dependent activity (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TOMM5	similarity:Belongs to the Tom5 familysubunit:Forms part of the preprotein translocase complex of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM complex) which consists of at least 7 different proteins (TOMM5, TOMM6, TOMM7, TOMM20, TOMM22, TOMM40 and TOMM70)	Import & Sorting
DNAJC19	Probable component of the PAM complex, a complex required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in an ATP-dependent manner. May act as a co-chaperone that stimulate the ATP-dependent activity (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
METAP1D	catalytic activity:Release of N-terminal amino acids, preferentially methionine, from peptides and arylamidescofactor:Binds 2 cobalt ions per subunitcofactor:Binds 2 cobalt ions per subunit. The true nature of the physiological cofactor is under debate. The enzyme is also active with zinc, manganese or divalent iron ionsfunction:Removes the amino-terminal methionine from nascent proteinssimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M24A family	Import & Sorting
TOMM20	Central component of the receptor complex responsible for the recognition and translocation of cytosolically synthesized mitochondrial preproteins. Together with TOM22 functions as the transit peptide receptor at the surface of the mitochondrion outer membrane and facilitates the movement of preproteins into the TOM40 translocation pore (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
TOMM34	Plays a role in the import of cytosolically synthesized preproteins into mitochondria. Binds the mature portion of precursor proteins. Interacts with cellular components, and possesses weak ATPase activity. May be a chaperone-like protein that helps to keep newly synthesized precursors in an unfolded import compatible state (By similarity)	Import & Sorting
LIAS	catalytic activity:Protein N(6)-(octanoyl)lysine + 2 sulfur + 2 S-adenosyl-L-methionine = protein N(6)-(lipoyl)lysine + 2 L-methionine + 2 5'-deoxyadenosinecofactor:Binds 2 4Fe-4S clusters per subunit. One cluster is coordinated with 3 cysteines and an exchangeable S-adenosyl-L-methioninefunction:Catalyzes the radical-mediated insertion of two sulfur atoms into the C-6 and C-8 positions of the octanoyl moiety bound to the lipoyl domains of lipoate-dependent enzymes, thereby converting the octanoylated domains into lipoylated derivativespathway:Protein modification; protein lipoylation via endogenous pathway; protein N(6)-(lipoyl)lysine from octanoyl-[acyl-carrier-protein]: step 2/2similarity:Belongs to the radical SAM superfamily. Lipoyl synthase familytissue specificity:Expressed predominantly in heart, testis, and liver	Lipoic Acid Metabolism
LIPT2	Catalyzes the transfer of endogenously produced octanoic acid from octanoyl-acyl-carrier-protein onto the lipoyl domains of lipoate-dependent enzymes. Lipoyl-ACP can also act as a substrate although octanoyl-ACP is likely to be the physiological substrate (By similarity)	Lipoic Acid Metabolism
LIPT1	Catalyzes the transfer of the lipoyl group from lipoyl- AMP to the specific lysine residue of lipoyl domains of lipoate- dependent enzymes (By similarity)	Lipoic Acid Metabolism
CDS2	Provides CDP-diacylglycerol an important precursor for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
FABP6	Ileal protein which stimulates gastric acid and pepsinogen secretion. Seems to be able to bind to bile salts and bilirubins	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
FDPS	Key enzyme in isoprenoid biosynthesis which catalyzes the formation of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP), a precursor for several classes of essential metabolites including sterols, dolichols, carotenoids, and ubiquinones. FPP also serves as substrate for protein farnesylation and geranylgeranylation. Catalyzes the sequential condensation of isopentenyl pyrophosphate with the allylic pyrophosphates, dimethylallyl pyrophosphate, and then with the resultant geranylpyrophosphate to the ultimate product farnesyl pyrophosphate (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
GPAT2	Esterifies acyl-group from acyl-ACP to the sn-1 position of glycerol-3-phosphate, an essential step in glycerolipid biosynthesis	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
HSD3B2	3-beta-HSD is a bifunctional enzyme, that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of Delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
HSD3B3	3-beta-HSD is a bifunctional enzyme, that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of Delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
HSD3B4	The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids. HSD IV can only catalyze the conversion of dihydrotestosterone to 5 alpha- androstanediol in the presence of the cofactor NADPH. Does not function as a isomerase	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
HSD3B5	The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids. HSD V can only catalyze the conversion of dihydrotestosterone to 5 alpha- androstanediol in the presence of the cofactor NADPH. Does not function as a isomerase	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
HSD3B6	3-beta-HSD is a bifunctional enzyme, that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of Delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids. May be involved in local production of progesterone	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
PRELID3A	smilarity: similarity:Belongs to the slowmo familysimilarity:Contains 1 PRELI/MSF1 domain	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
PRELID3B	smilarity: similarity:Belongs to the slowmo familysimilarity:Contains 1 PRELI/MSF1 domain	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
SLC27A3	Has acyl-CoA ligase activity for long-chain and very- long-chain fatty acids. Does not exhibit fatty acid transport activity	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
SARDH	catalytic activity:Sarcosine + acceptor + H(2)O = glycine + formaldehyde + reduced acceptorcofactor:Binds 1 FAD covalently per monomerpathway:Amine and polyamine degradation; sarcosine degradation; formaldehyde and glycine from sarcosine: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the gcvT family	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
LACTB	similarity:Belongs to the peptidase S12 familytissue specificity:Expressed predominantly in liver	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
DMGDH	catalytic activity:N,N-dimethylglycine + acceptor + H(2)O = sarcosine + formaldehyde + reduced acceptorcofactor:Binds 1 FAD covalently per monomerpathway:Amine and polyamine degradation; betaine degradation; sarcosine from betaine: step 2/2similarity:Belongs to the gcvT family	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
PISD	catalytic activity:Phosphatidyl-L-serine = phosphatidylethanolamine + CO(2)cofactor:Pyruvoyl grouppathway:Phospholipid metabolism; phosphatidylethanolamine biosynthesis; phosphatidylethanolamine from CDP-diacylglycerol: step 2/2similarity:Belongs to the phosphatidylserine decarboxylase familysubunit:Heterodimer	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYP27A1	Catalyzes the first step in the oxidation of the side chain of sterol intermediates; the 27-hydroxylation of 5-beta- cholestane-3-alpha,7-alpha,12-alpha-triol. Has also a vitamin D3- 25-hydroxylase activity (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
OPA3	May play some role in mitochondrial processes (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
NUDT19	Acyl-CoA diphosphatase that mediates the hydrolysis of a wide range of CoA esters, including choloyl-CoA and branched-chain fatty-acyl-CoA esters. At low substrate concentrations medium and long-chain fatty-acyl-CoA esters are the primary substrates	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
STARD7	similarity:Contains 1 START domain	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
HSD3B1	3-beta-HSD is a bifunctional enzyme, that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of Delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. The 3-beta-HSD enzymatic system plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
ABCD1	Probable transporter. Could be involved in the import of VLCFA-CoA synthetase into the peroxisomal membrane	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
ACP6	Hydrolyzes lysophosphatidic acid to monoacylglycerol (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
ACSS3	Activates acetate so that it can be used for lipid synthesis or for energy generation (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
ACACA	catalytic activity:ATP + acetyl-CoA + HCO(3)(-) = ADP + phosphate + malonyl-CoAcatalytic activity:ATP + biotin-carboxyl-carrier protein + CO(2) = ADP + phosphate + carboxybiotin-carboxyl-carrier proteincofactor:Binds 2 manganese ions per subunitcofactor:Biotinenzyme regulation:By phosphorylationfunction:Catalyzes the rate-limiting reaction in the biogenesis of long-chain fatty acids. Carries out three functions: biotin carboxyl carrier protein, biotin carboxylase and carboxyltransferasepathway:Lipid metabolism; malonyl-CoA biosynthesis; malonyl-CoA from acetyl-CoA: step 1/1PTM:Phosphorylation on Ser-1262 is required for interaction with BRCA1similarity:Contains 1 ATP-grasp domainsimilarity:Contains 1 biotin carboxylation domainsimilarity:Contains 1 biotinyl-binding domainsimilarity:Contains 1 carboxyltransferase domainsubunit:Interacts in its inactive phosphorylated form with the BRCT domains of BRCA1 which prevents ACACA dephosphorylation and inhibits lipid synthesis	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYB5R1	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductases are involved in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYP11A1	Catalyzes the side-chain cleavage reaction of cholesterol to pregnenolone (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
AGPAT5	Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid by incorporating an acyl moiety at the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
GPAM	Esterifies acyl-group from acyl-ACP to the sn-1 position of glycerol-3-phosphate, an essential step in glycerolipid biosynthesis (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYP11B2	Forms corticosterone from 11-deoxycorticosterone	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYP11B1	similarity:Belongs to the cytochrome P450 family	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYB5R3	Desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
NEU4	May function in lysosomal catabolism of sialylated glycoconjugates. Has sialidase activity towards synthetic substrates, such as 2'-(4-methylumbelliferyl)-alpha-D-N- acetylneuraminic acid (4-MU-NANA or 4MU-NeuAc). Has a broad substrate specificity being active on glycoproteins, oligosaccharides and sialylated glycolipids (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYB5R2	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductases are involved in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction. Responsible for NADH-dependent lucigenin chemiluminescence in spermatozoa by reducing both lucigenin and 2- [4-iodophenyl]-3-[4-nitrophenyl]-5-[2,4-disulfophenyl]-2H tetrazolium monosodium salt (WST-1) (By similarity)	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
SERAC1	similarity:Belongs to the SERAC1 familytissue specificity:Testis	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
ASAH2	Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid at an optimal pH of 6.5-8.5. Acts as a key regulator of sphingolipid signaling metabolites by generating sphingosine at the cell surface. Acts as a repressor of apoptosis both by reducing C16-ceramide, thereby preventing ceramide-induced apoptosis, and generating sphingosine, a precursor of the antiapoptotic factor sphingosine 1-phosphate. Probably involved in the digestion of dietary sphingolipids in intestine by acting as a key enzyme for the catabolism of dietary sphingolipids and regulating the levels of bioactive sphingolipid metabolites in the intestinal tract	Metabolism of Lipids & Lipoproteins
CYB5A	Cytochrome b5 is a membrane bound hemoprotein which function as an electron carrier for several membrane bound oxygenases. It is also involved in several steps of the sterol biosynthesis pathway, particularly in the C-5 double bond introduction during the C-5 desaturation	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
DHRS2	similarity: This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family, which has over 46,000 members. Members of this family are enzymes that metabolize many different compounds, such as steroid hormones, prostaglandins, retinoids, lipids and xenobiotics. 	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
MMAA	function:May be involved in the transport of cobalamin (Cbl) into mitochondria for the final steps of adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl) synthesispathway:Cofactor biosynthesis; adenosylcobalamin biosynthesissimilarity:Belongs to the argK family	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
NAXD	similarity:Belongs to the YjeF familysimilarity:Contains 1 YjeF C-terminal domain	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
NAXE	The product of this gene interacts with apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), the major apolipoprotein of high-density lipoproteins (HDLs). It is secreted into some bodily fluids, and its synthesis and secretion are stimulated in vitro by incubating cells with apoA-I. The human genome contains related pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
DHRS4	catalytic activity:R-CHOH-R' + NADP(+) = R-CO-R' + NADPHfunction:Reduces all-trans-retinal and 9-cis retinal. Can also catalyze the oxidation of all-trans-retinol with NADP as co-factor, but with much lower efficiency. Reduces alkyl phenyl ketones and alpha-dicarbonyl compounds with aromatic rings, such as pyrimidine-4-aldehyde, 3-benzoylpyridine, 4-benzoylpyridine, menadione and 4-hexanoylpyridine. Has no activity towards aliphatic aldehydes and ketonesmiscellaneous:Inhibited by kaempferol, quercetin, genistein and myristic acidsimilarity:Belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) familysubunit:Homotetramer	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
CLYBL	caution:This organism lacks the other subunits that are necessary for ATP-independent citrate lyase activity. Even though this protein has clear similarity to citrate lyase beta subunit, it is expected to have a somewhat different enzyme activitycofactor:Binds 1 magnesium ion per subunitsimilarity:Belongs to the hpcH/hpaI aldolase family. Citrate lyase beta subunit-like subfamilytissue specificity:Detected in brain, liver, kidney, heart, skeletal muscle and ovary	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
MMAB	catalytic activity:ATP + cob(I)yrinic acid a,c-diamide = triphosphate + adenosylcob(III)yrinic acid a,c-diamidecatalytic activity:ATP + cobinamide = triphosphate + adenosylcobinamidepathway:Cofactor biosynthesis; adenosylcobalamin biosynthesis; adenosylcobalamin from cob(II)yrinic acid a,c-diamide: step 2/7similarity:Belongs to the Cob(I)alamin adenosyltransferase familysubunit:Homotrimer	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
RDH13	This gene encodes a mitochondrial short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase, which catalyzes the reduction and oxidation of retinoids. The encoded enzyme may function in retinoic acid production and may also protect the mitochondria against oxidative stress.	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
AKR1B10	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member can efficiently reduce aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes, and it is less active on hexoses. It is highly expressed in adrenal gland, small intestine, and colon, and may play an important role in liver carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
NMNAT3	Catalyzes the formation of NAD(+) from nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) and ATP. Can also use the deamidated form; nicotinic acid mononucleotide (NaMN) as substrate with the same efficiency. Can use triazofurin monophosphate (TrMP) as substrate. Can also use GTP and ITP as nucleotide donors. Also catalyzes the reverse reaction, i.e. the pyrophosphorolytic cleavage of NAD(+). For the pyrophosphorolytic activity, can use NAD (+), NADH, NAAD, nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NHD), nicotinamide guanine dinucleotide (NGD) as substrates. Fails to cleave phosphorylated dinucleotides NADP(+), NADPH and NAADP(+). Protects against axonal degeneration following injury	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
CYB5B	Cytochrome b5 is a membrane bound hemoprotein which function as an electron carrier for several membrane bound oxygenases (By similarity)	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
AKR1B7	catalytic activity:Alditol + NAD(P)(+) = aldose + NAD(P)Hfunction:The role of MVDP in sperm maturation and storage may be related to its potential capacity to produce fructose, or MVDP may play an osmoregulatory role by producing sorbitolinduction:Castration resulted in a marked decrease in the level of the mRNA coding for the protein, whereas administration of testosterone to castrated males resulted in a marked increasesimilarity:Belongs to the aldo/keto reductase familysubunit:Monomer	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
COASY	Bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the fourth and fifth sequential steps of CoA biosynthetic pathway. The fourth reaction is catalyzed by the phosphopantetheine adenylyltransferase, coded by the coaD domain; the fifth reaction is catalyzed by the dephospho-CoA kinase, coded by the coaE domain. May act as a point of CoA biosynthesis regulation	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
MMADHC	similarity: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is involved in an early step of vitamin B12 metabolism. Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is essential for normal development and survival in humans. Mutations in this gene cause methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblD (MMADHC), a disorder of cobalamin metabolism that is characterized by decreased levels of the coenzymes adenosylcobalamin and methylcobalamin. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 11 and X.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008],	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
CYP27B1	Catalyzes the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25(OH)D) to 1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D) plays an important role in normal bone growth, calcium metabolism, and tissue differentiation	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
CYP24A1	Has a role in maintaining calcium homeostasis. Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent 24-hydroxylation of calcidiol (25- hydroxyvitamin D(3)) and calcitriol (1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3)). The enzyme can perform up to 6 rounds of hydroxylation of calcitriol leading to calcitroic acid	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
PANK2	miscellaneous:The sequence shown here is derived from an EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ third party annotation (TPA) entry	Metabolism of Vitamins & Co-Factors
SLC16A7	Proton-linked monocarboxylate transporter. Catalyzes the rapid transport across the plasma membrane of many monocarboxylates such as lactate, pyruvate, branched-chain oxo acids derived from leucine, valine and isoleucine, and the ketone bodies acetoacetate, beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetate. MCT2 is a high affinity pyruvate transporter	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC27A1	Involved in translocation of long-chain fatty acids (LFCA) across the plasma membrane. The LFCA import appears to be hormone-regulated in a tissue-specific manner. In adipocytes, but not myocytes, insulin induces a rapid translocation of FatP1 from intracellular compartments to the plasma membrane, paralleled by increased LFCA uptake. May act directly as a bona fide transporter, or alternatively, in a cytoplasmic or membrane- associated multimeric protein complex to trap and draw fatty acids towards accumulation. Plays a pivotal role in regulating available LFCA substrates from exogenous sources in tissues undergoing high levels of beta-oxidation or triglyceride synthesis. May be involved in regulation of cholesterol metabolism. Has acyl-CoA ligase activity for long-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC29A1	Mediates both influx and efflux of nucleosides across the membrane (equilibrative transporter). It is sensitive (ES) to low concentrations of the inhibitor nitrobenzylmercaptopurine riboside (NBMPR) and is sodium-independent. It has a higher affinity for adenosine. Resistant to dipyridamole and dilazep inhibition (anticancer chemotherapeutics drugs)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC3A1	Mitochondrial carrier protein involved in transmembrane transport	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC44A1	function:Probable choline transporter. May be involved in membrane synthesis and myelin productionsimilarity:Belongs to the CTL (choline transporter-like) familytissue specificity:Specifically abundant in skeletal muscle (at protein level)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A3	Transport of phosphate groups from the cytosol to mitochondrial matrix. Phosphate is cotransported with H(+) (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A20	Mediates the transport of acylcarnitines of different length across the mitochondrial inner membrane from the cytosol to the mitochondrial matrix for their oxidation by the mitochondrial fatty acid-oxidation pathway (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A35	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A11	Catalyzes the transport of 2-oxoglutarate across the inner mitochondrial membrane in an electroneutral exchange for malate or other dicarboxylic acids, and plays an important role in several metabolic processes, including the malate-aspartate shuttle, the oxoglutarate/isocitrate shuttle, in gluconeogenesis from lactate, and in nitrogen metabolism (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A1	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A42	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A30	function:Probable transporterinduction:Up-regulated during fasting and in the regenerative phase following renal tubular injurysimilarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeatstissue specificity:Present in kidney (at protein level). Expressed predominantly within the kidney cortex in the proximal and distal tubules and at lower levels in the testis and white adipose tissue	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A10	function:Involved in translocation of malonate, malate and succinate in exchange for phosphate, sulfate, sulfite or thiosulfate across mitochondrial inner membranesimilarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeatstissue specificity:Expressed at very high levels in white adipocytes	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A19	Mitochondrial transporter mediating uptake of thiamine pyrophosphate (ThPP) into mitochondria (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A15	Ornithine transport across inner mitochondrial membrane, from the cytoplasm to the matrix	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A25	function:Calcium-dependent mitochondrial solute carrier. Mitochondrial solute carriers shuttle metabolites, nucleotides, and cofactors through the mitochondrial inner membrane. May act as a ATP-Mg/Pi exchanger that mediates the transport of Mg-ATP in exchange for phosphate, catalyzing the net uptake or efflux of adenine nucleotides into or from the mitochondriasimilarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 EF-hand domainssimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A26	Mitochondrial solute carriers shuttle metabolites, nucleotides, and cofactors through the mitochondrial inner membrane. Specifically mediates the transport of S- adenosylmethionine (SAM) into the mitochondria (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A51	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A18	Involved in the transport of glutamate across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Glutamate is cotransported with H(+) (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A22	Involved in the transport of glutamate across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Glutamate is cotransported with H(+) (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A24	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial solute carrier. Mitochondrial solute carriers shuttle metabolites, nucleotides, and cofactors through the mitochondrial inner membrane. May act as a ATP-Mg/Pi exchanger that mediates the transport of Mg-ATP in exchange for phosphate, catalyzing the net uptake or efflux of adenine nucleotides into or from the mitochondria (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC30A9	solute carrier family 30 (zinc transporter), member 9	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A16	Required for the accumulation of coenzyme A in the mitochondrial matrix (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
UCP1	UCP are mitochondrial transporter proteins that create proton leaks across the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis. As a result, energy is dissipated in the form of heat	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A39	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A21	Transports C5-C7 oxodicarboxylates across the inner membranes of mitochondria. Can transport 2-oxoadipate, 2- oxoglutarate, adipate, glutarate, and to a lesser extent, pimelate, 2-oxopimelate, 2-aminoadipate, oxaloacetate, and citrate (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A29	Has palmitoylcarnitine transporting activity	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A44	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A45	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A14	Participates in the mitochondrial proton leak measured in brain mitochondria	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A38	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A36	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A27	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A23	Calcium-dependent mitochondrial solute carrier. Mitochondrial solute carriers shuttle metabolites, nucleotides, and cofactors through the mitochondrial inner membrane. May act as a ATP-Mg/Pi exchanger that mediates the transport of Mg-ATP in exchange for phosphate, catalyzing the net uptake or efflux of adenine nucleotides into or from the mitochondria (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
UCP3	UCP are mitochondrial transporter proteins that create proton leaks across the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. As a result, energy is dissipated in the form of heat. May play a role in the modulation of tissue respiratory control. Participates in thermogenesis and energy balance (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A40	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A53	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A2	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A33	Probable mitochondrial transporter which participates in dendritic cell endocytosis. May associate with mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A34	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A41	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A43	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A48	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 3 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Carrier
UCP2	UCP are mitochondrial transporter proteins that create proton leaks across the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis. As a result, energy is dissipated in the form of heat (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC25A47	Uncoupling protein which may catalyze the physiological 'proton leak' in liver (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Carrier
SLC22A4	Sodium-ion dependent, low affinity carnitine transporter. Probably transports one sodium ion with one molecule of carnitine. Also transports organic cations such as tetraethylammonium (TEA) without the involvement of sodium. Relative uptake activity ratio of carnitine to TEA is 1.78	Mitochondrial Carrier
ACTR2	The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, the protein it encodes is known to be a major constituent of the ARP2/3 complex. This complex is located at the cell surface and is essential to cell shape and motility through lamellipodial actin assembly and protrusion.	Mitochondrial Dynamics
AGTPBP1	cofactor:Binds 1 zinc ion per subunit developmental stage:Highly expressed in differentiating neurons. From E16.5, expression is widespread in brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nervous tissue. Within the developing CNS, expression is restricted to regions of brain and spinal cord containing differentiating neuronsdisease:Defects in Agtpbp1 are a cause of Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd). The classical recessive mouse mutant, Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd), exhibits adult-onset degeneration of cerebellar Purkinje neurons, retinal photoreceptors, olfactory bulb mitral neurons, and selected thalamic neurons, and has defective spermatogenesisinduction:By axonal regenerationsimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M14 familytissue specificity:Expressed in sciatic nerve transection, brain, spinal motor neurons undergoing axon regeneration, testis, heart and in developing brain. Expression in cranial motor nuclei is the same as that observed in uninjured primary motor neurons. Expression is prevalent in sensory neurons and hippocampal CA3 neurons in addition to regenerating motor neurons	Mitochondrial Dynamics
ARPC3	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been conserved through evolution and is implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells. 	Mitochondrial Dynamics
ARPC5	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells and has been conserved through evolution. The exact role of the protein encoded by this gene, the p16 subunit, has yet to be determined. 	Mitochondrial Dynamics
ARPC5L	May function as component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks.	Mitochondrial Dynamics
KIF1BP	Required for organization of axonal microtubules, and axonal outgrowth and maintenance during peripheral and central nervous system development. Regulates mitochondrial transport by modulating KIF1B motor activity (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
KIF5B	Microtubule-dependent motor required for normal distribution of mitochondria and lysosomes. May be involved in the mechanisms of growth arrest induced by exposure to DNA-damaging drugs or by cellular senescence	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MAP1LC3A	function:Probably involved in formation of autophagosomal vacuoles (autophagosomes)PTM:The precursor molecule is cleaved by APG4B/ATG4B to form the cytosolic form, LC3-I. This is activated by APG7L/ATG7, transferred to ATG3 and conjugated to phospholipid to form the membrane-bound form, LC3-IIsimilarity:Belongs to the MAP1 LC3 familysubcellular location:LC3-II binds to the autophagic membranessubunit:3 different light chains, LC1, LC2 and LC3, can associate with MAP1A and MAP1B proteins	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MICOS10	cristae formation; MICOS complex	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MICOS13	cristae formation; MICOS complex	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MIEF2	similarity:Belongs to the SMCR7 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MSTO1	Involved in the regulation of mitochondrial distribution and morphology (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MTFR2	May play a role in mitochondrial aerobic respiration essentially in the testis. Can also promote mitochondrial fission	Mitochondrial Dynamics
PKIA	Extremely potent competitive inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity, this protein interacts with the catalytic subunit of the enzyme after the cAMP-induced dissociation of its regulatory chains	Mitochondrial Dynamics
PLD6	catalytic activity:A phosphatidylcholine + H(2)O = choline + a phosphatidatesimilarity:Belongs to the phospholipase D familysimilarity:Contains 1 PLD phosphodiesterase domain	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SH3GLB1	May be required for normal outer mitochondrial membrane dynamics. Required for coatomer-mediated retrograde transport in certain cells. May recruit other proteins to membranes with high curvature. May promote membrane fusion	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SQSTM1	Adapter protein which binds ubiquitin and may regulate the activation of NFKB1 by TNF-alpha, nerve growth factor (NGF) and interleukin-1. May play a role in titin/TTN downstream signaling in muscle cells. May regulate signaling cascades through ubiquitination. May be involved in cell differentiation, apoptosis, immune response and regulation of K(+) channels	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SYBU	function:Part of a kinesin motor-adapter complex that is critical for the anterograde axonal transport of active zone components and contributes to activity-dependent presynaptic assembly during neuronal developmentsubcellular location:Colocalizes with syntaxin vesicles along microtubules in neuronal processessubunit:Interacts with STX1A and KIF5B	Mitochondrial Dynamics
TRAK1	similarity: PTM:O-glycosylatedsimilarity:Contains 1 HAP1 N-terminal domainsubunit:Interacts with O-GlcNAc transferase. Interacts with RHOT1/Miro-1 and RHOT2/Miro-2tissue specificity:High expression in spinal cord and moderate expression in all other tissues and specific brain regions examined. Expressed in all cell lines examined	Mitochondrial Dynamics
TRAK2	similarity: PTM:O-glycosylatedsimilarity:Contains 1 HAP1 N-terminal domainsubunit:Interacts with GABA-A receptor and O-GlcNAc transferase (By similarity). Interacts with RHOT1/Miro-1 and RHOT2/Miro-2tissue specificity:Widely expressed, with highest expression in heart	Mitochondrial Dynamics
USP30	May participate in the maintenance of mitochondrial morphology (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
WDR81	similarity:Contains 5 WD repeats	Mitochondrial Dynamics
AFG3L2	Putative ATP-dependent protease (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
OPA1	Dynamin-related GTPase required for mitochondrial fusion and regulation of apoptosis. May form a diffusion barrier for proteins stored in mitochondrial cristae. Proteolytic processing in response to intrinsic apoptotic signals may lead to disassembly of OPA1 oligomers and release of the caspase activator cytochrome C (CYCS) into the mitochondrial intermembrane space	Mitochondrial Dynamics
IMMT	sequence caution:Translation N-terminally extended	Mitochondrial Dynamics
APOOL	similarity:Belongs to the apolipoprotein O family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SLC25A4	Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MINOS1	mitochondrial inner membrane organizing system 1	Mitochondrial Dynamics
PHB2	Acts as a mediator of transcriptional repression by nuclear hormone receptors via recruitment of histone deacetylases. Functions as an estrogen receptor (ER)-selective coregulator that potentiates the inhibitory activities of antiestrogens and represses the activity of estrogens. Competes with NCOA1 for modulation of ER transcriptional activity. Probably involved in regulating mitochondrial respiration activity and in aging	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MFN1	Essential transmembrane GTPase, which mediates mitochondrial fusion. Fusion of mitochondria occurs in many cell types and constitutes an important step in mitochondria morphology, which is balanced between fusion and fission. MFN1 acts independently of the cytoskeleton. Overexpression induces the formation of mitochondrial networks	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SPG7	Putative ATP-dependent protease (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
CHCHD3	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SLC25A5	Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the mitochondrial inner membrane	Mitochondrial Dynamics
CHCHD10	similarity: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is enriched at cristae junctions in the intermembrane space. It may play a role in cristae morphology maintenance or oxidative phosphorylation. Mutations in this gene cause frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-2. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 7 and 19. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014],	Mitochondrial Dynamics
STOML2	similarity:Belongs to the band 7/mec-2 familysubcellular location:Associated with the cytoskeletonsubunit:Interacts with CACNA2D2	Mitochondrial Dynamics
ATAD3A	similarity:Belongs to the AAA ATPase family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SLC25A31	Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the mitochondrial inner membrane. May serve to mediate energy generating and energy consuming processes in the distal flagellum, possibly as a nucleotide shuttle between flagellar glycolysis, protein phosphorylation and mechanisms of motility	Mitochondrial Dynamics
TCAIM	similarity: mitochondrial protein regulating in T-cell activation	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MFN2	Essential transmembrane GTPase, which mediates mitochondrial fusion. Fusion of mitochondria occurs in many cell types and constitutes an important step in mitochondria morphology, which is balanced between fusion and fission. MFN2 acts independently of the cytoskeleton. It therefore plays a central role in mitochondrial metabolism and may be associated with obesity and/or apoptosis processes. Overexpression induces the formation of mitochondrial networks. Plays an important role in the regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation	Mitochondrial Dynamics
TMEM11	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM11 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
RHOT2	Mitochondrial GTPase involved in mitochondrial trafficking. Probably involved in control of anterograde transport of mitochondria and their subcellular distribution (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
APOO	Promotes cholesterol efflux from macrophage cells. Detected in HDL, LDL and VLDL. Secreted by a microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP)-dependent mechanism, probably as a VLDL-associated protein that is subsequently transferred to HDL. May be involved in myocardium-protective mechanisms against lipid accumulation	Mitochondrial Dynamics
CHCHD7	similarity:Belongs to the CHCHD7 familysimilarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MTFR1L	similarity:Belongs to the MTFR1/FAM54 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
RHOT1	function:Mitochondrial GTPase involved in mitochondrial trafficking. Probably involved in control of anterograde transport of mitochondria and their subcellular distributionsimilarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial Rho GTPase familysimilarity:Contains 2 EF-hand domainssimilarity:Contains 2 Miro domainssubunit:Interacts with the kinesin-binding proteins TRAK1/OIP106 and TRAK2/GRIF1, forming a link between mitochondria and the trafficking apparatus of the microtubules	Mitochondrial Dynamics
SLC25A46	similarity:Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier familysimilarity:Contains 2 Solcar repeats	Mitochondrial Dynamics
FIS1	domain:The C-terminus is required for mitochondrial or peroxisomal localization, while the N-terminus is necessary for mitochondrial or peroxisomal fission, localization and regulation of the interaction with DNM1Lfunction:Promotes the fragmentation of the mitochondrial network and its perinuclear clustering. Can induce cytochrome c release from the mitochondrion to the cytosol, ultimately leading to apoptosis. Also mediates peroxisomal fissionsimilarity:Belongs to the FIS1 familysimilarity:Contains 1 TPR repeatsubunit:Interacts with DNM1L/DLP1 through the TPR region	Mitochondrial Dynamics
FUNDC2	similarity:Belongs to the FUN14 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
OMA1	Mitochondrial protease (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
CHCHD6	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MTFP1	Essential for cell viability. May have a role in maintaining the integrity of the mitochondrial network. Loss-of- function leads to apoptosis (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
LYRM1	similarity:Belongs to the complex I LYR family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
DNM1L	Functions in mitochondrial and peroxisomal division probably by regulating membrane fission. Enzyme hydrolyzing GTP that oligomerizes to form ring-like structures and is able to remodel membranes. May also play a role on organelles of the secretory pathway (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
FUNDC1	similarity:Belongs to the FUN14 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MTFR1	Promote mitochondrial fission (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
GDAP1	May function in a signal transduction pathway responsible for ganglioside-induced neurite differentiation. May also have a role in protecting myelin membranes against free radical-mediated damage	Mitochondrial Dynamics
Mar-05	domain:The RING-CH-type zinc finger domain is required for E3 ligase activityfunction:Mitochondrial E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that plays a crucial role in the control of mitochondrial morphology. Promotes ubiquitination of DRP1. E3 ubiquitin ligases accept ubiquitin from an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme in the form of a thioester and then directly transfer the ubiquitin to targeted substratespathway:Protein modification; protein ubiquitinationsimilarity:Contains 1 RING-CH-type zinc fingersubunit:Interacts with MTFN2 and ubiquitinated forms of DRP1	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MFF	Plays a role in mitochondrial and peroxisomal fission (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MIEF1	similarity:Belongs to the SMCR7 family	Mitochondrial Dynamics
KIF1B	Motor for anterograde transport of mitochondria. Has a microtubule plus end-directed motility	Mitochondrial Dynamics
MGARP	similarity: tissue specificity:Found in ovary and corneal endothelial cells	Mitochondrial Dynamics
PRORP	Functions in mitochondrial tRNA maturation. Part of mitochondrial ribonuclease P, an enzyme composed of MRPP1/RG9MTD1, MRPP2/HSD17B10 and MRPP3/KIAA0391, which cleaves tRNA molecules in their 5'-ends (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
HSD17B10	Functions in mitochondrial tRNA maturation. Part of mitochondrial ribonuclease P, an enzyme composed of MRPP1/RG9MTD1, MRPP2/HSD17B10 and MRPP3/KIAA0391, which cleaves tRNA molecules in their 5'-ends (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
REXO2	3'-to-5' exoribonuclease specific for small oligoribonucleotides. Active on small (primarily </=5 nucleotides in length) single-stranded RNA and DNA oligomers. May have a role for cellular nucleotide recycling (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
FASTKD1	similarity:Belongs to the FAST kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 RAP domain	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
FASTKD2	similarity:Belongs to the FAST kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 RAP domain	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
MTRF1	Mitochondrial peptide chain release factor that directs the termination of translation in response to the peptide chain non-cognate termination stop codons AGG and AGA (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
GRSF1	G-rich RNA sequence binding factor 1	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
ELAC2	Zinc phosphodiesterase, which displays some tRNA 3'- processing endonuclease activity. Probably involved in tRNA maturation, by removing a 3'-trailer from precursor tRNA (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
MTPAP	catalytic activity:ATP + RNA(n) = diphosphate + RNA(n+1)function:Polymerase that creates the 3' poly(A) tail of mitochondrial mRNA's. Might be responsible for the creation of some UAA stop codons which are not encoded in mtDNAsimilarity:Belongs to the DNA polymerase type-B-like family	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
TRMT10C	Functions in mitochondrial tRNA maturation. Part of mitochondrial ribonuclease P, an enzyme composed of MRPP1/RG9MTD1, MRPP2/HSD17B10 and MRPP3/KIAA0391, which cleaves tRNA molecules in their 5'-ends (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
LACTB2	similarity:Belongs to the metallo-beta-lactamase superfamily. Glyoxalase II family	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
FASTK	catalytic activity:ATP + [Fas-activated serine/threonine protein] = ADP + [Fas-activated serine/threonine phosphoprotein]function:Fas-mediated apoptosis is characterized by FASTK-dephosphorylation and TIA-1-phosphorylation. Both are activated and FASTK-mediated TIA-1 activation play a key role in apoptosisPTM:Phosphorylated on serine/threoninesimilarity:Belongs to the FAST protein kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 RAP domainsubunit:Interacts with TIA-1	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
PNPT1	Involved in mRNA degradation. Hydrolyzes single-stranded polyribonucleotides processively in the 3'- to 5'-direction (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
PDE12	function:Enzyme that cleaves 2',5'-phosphodiester bond linking adenosines of the 5'-triphosphorylated oligoadenylates, triphosphorylated oligoadenylates referred as 2-5A modulates the 2-5A system. This enzyme degraded triphosphorylated 2-5A to produce AMP and ATP. Also cleaves 3',5'-phosphodiester bond of oligoadenylates. Play a role as a negative regulator of the The 2-5A system that is one of the major pathways for antiviral and antitumor functions induced by interferon (IFNs)similarity:Belongs to the CCR4/nocturin family	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
FASTKD5	similarity:Belongs to the FAST kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 RAP domain	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
FASTKD3	similarity:Belongs to the FAST kinase familysimilarity:Contains 1 RAP domain	Mitochondrial Gene Expression
AKT1	This gene encodes the founding member of the Akt serine-threonine protein kinase gene family that also includes Akt2 and Akt3. This kinase is a major downstream effector of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway that mediates the effects of various growth factors such as platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). It is activated through recruitment to cellular membranes by PI3K lipid products and by phosphorylation by 3-phosphoinositide dependent kinase-1. It then further phosphorylates different downstream proteins in response to various extracellular signals and thus plays a pivotal role in mediating a variety of cellular processes, such as glucose metabolism, glycogen biosynthesis, protein synthesis and turn over, inflammatory response, cell survival (anti-apoptosis) and development. 	Mitochondrial Signaling
GSK3B	similarity: Participates in the Wnt signaling pathway. Implicated in the hormonal control of several regulatory proteins including glycogen synthase, MYB and the transcription factor JUN. Phosphorylates JUN at sites proximal to its DNA-binding domain, thereby reducing its affinity for DNA. Phosphorylates MUC1 in breast cancer cells, and decreases the interaction of MUC1 with CTNNB1/beta-catenin	Mitochondrial Signaling
MTOR	similarity: Acts as the target for the cell-cycle arrest and immunosuppressive effects of the FKBP12-rapamycin complex. Part of the TORC2 complex which plays a critical role in AKT1 Ser-473 phosphorylation, and may modulate the phosphorylation of PKCA and regulate actin cytoskeleton organization	Mitochondrial Signaling
PRKACA	Phosphorylates a large number of substrates in the cytoplasm and the nucleus	Mitochondrial Signaling
PRKCE	catalytic activity:ATP + a protein = ADP + a phosphoproteindomain:The C1 domain, containing the phorbol ester/DAG-type region 1 (C1A) and 2 (C1B), is the diacylglycerol sensor and the C2 domain is a non-calcium binding domainenzyme regulation:Three specific sites; Thr-566 (activation loop of the kinase domain), Thr-710 (turn motif) and Ser-729 (hydrophobic region), need to be phosphorylated for its full activationfunction:PKC is activated by diacylglycerol which in turn phosphorylates a range of cellular proteins. PKC also serves as the receptor for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promotersfunction:This is calcium-independent, phospholipid-dependent, serine- and threonine-specific enzymePTM:Phosphorylation on Thr-566 triggers autophosphorylation on Ser-729similarity:Belongs to the protein kinase superfamilysimilarity:Belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. AGC Ser/Thr protein kinase family. PKC subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 AGC-kinase C-terminal domainsimilarity:Contains 1 C2 domainsimilarity:Contains 1 protein kinase domainsimilarity:Contains 2 phorbol-ester/DAG-type zinc fingerssubunit:Forms a ternary complex with TRIM63 and GN2BL1	Mitochondrial Signaling
SHC1	Signaling adapter that couples activated growth factor receptors to signaling pathway. Isoform p47 and isoform p52, once phosphorylated, couple activated receptor kinases to Ras via the recruitment of the GRB2/SOS complex and are implicated in the cytoplasmic propagation of mitogenic signals. Isoform p47 and isoform p52 may thus function as initiators of the Ras signaling cascade in various non-neuronal systems. Isoform p66 does not mediate Ras activation, but is involved in signal transduction pathways that regulate the cellular response to oxidative stress and life span. Isoform p66 acts as a downstream target of the tumor suppressor p53 and is indispensable for the ability of stress-activated p53 to induce elevation of intracellular oxidants, cytochrome c release and apoptosis. The expression of isoform p66 has been correlated with life span	Mitochondrial Signaling
SIRT1	similarity: NAD-dependent deacetylase, which regulates processes such as apoptosis and muscle differentiation by deacetylating key proteins. Deacetylates 'Lys-382' of p53/TP53 and impairs its ability to induce proapoptotic program and modulate cell senescence. Deacetylates TAF1B and thereby represses rDNA transcription by the RNA polymerase I. Involved in HES1- and HEY2- mediated transcriptional repression. Inhibits skeletal muscle differentiation by deacetylating PCAF and MYOD1. May serve as a sensor of the cytosolic ratio of NAD(+)/NADH, which is essential in skeletal muscle cell differentiation. Despite some ability to deacetylate histones in vitro, such activity is either weak or inexistent in vivo. In case of HIV-1 infection, interacts with and deacetylates the viral Tat protein	Mitochondrial Signaling
SIRT2	NAD-dependent deacetylase, which deacetylates the 'Lys- 40' of alpha-tubulin. Involved in the control of mitotic exit in the cell cycle, probably via its role in the regulation of cytoskeleton. Despite some ability to deacetylate histones in vitro, it is unlikely in vivo (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling
IDE	catalytic activity:Degradation of insulin, glucagon and other polypeptides. No action on proteinscofactor:Binds 1 zinc ion per subunitfunction:May play a role in the cellular processing of insulin. May be involved in intercellular peptide signalingsimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M16 familysubunit:Homodimer	Mitochondrial Signaling
AKAP1	domain:RII-alpha binding site, predicted to form an amphipathic helix, could participate in protein-protein interactions with a complementary surface on the R-subunit dimerfunction:Differentially targeted protein that binds to type I and II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A. Anchors them to the cytoplasmic face of the mitochondrial outer membrane or allows them to reside in the endoplasmic reticulum. Does not contain the classic KDEL endoplasmic reticulum-targeting sequence. This explains how it is able to switch its localization, either being in the endoplasmic reticulum or in the mitochondria depending on which N-terminal part begins the isoform. The longest N-terminal part only present in isoform 2 and isoform 4 acts as a suppressor of mitochondrial targeting and as an activator of recessive endoplasmic reticulum targeting motifsimilarity:Contains 1 KH domainsimilarity:Contains 1 Tudor domaintissue specificity:Highest expression in testis, heart, liver, skeletal muscle, intestine and kidney, followed by brain and lung. No expression in spleen. Isoform 1/D-AKAP1A is expressed predominantly in testis whereas isoform 4/D-AKAP1D is expressed primarily in liver	Mitochondrial Signaling
CHCHD2	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Mitochondrial Signaling
SIRT5	Probable NAD-dependent deacetylase (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling
SIRT3	NAD-dependent deacetylase. Despite some ability to deacetylate histones in vitro, it is unlikely in vivo (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling
MAVS	Required for innate immune defense against viruses. Acts downstream of DDX58 and IFIH1/MDA5, which detect intracellular dsRNA produced during viral replication, to coordinate pathways leading to the activation of NF-kappa-B, IRF3 and IRF7, and to the subsequent induction of antiviral cytokines such as IFN-beta and RANTES (CCL5). May activate the same pathways following detection of extracellular dsRNA by TLR3. May protect cells from apoptosis (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling
SYNJ2BP	Isoform 1 regulates endocytosis of activin type 2 receptor kinases through the Ral/RALBP1-dependent pathway and may be involved in suppression of activin-induced signal transduction. Isoform 2 and isoform 3 show a stimulatory affect on activin- induced signal transduction and enhance activin type 2 expression at the cell surface	Mitochondrial Signaling
NLRX1	Participates in antiviral signaling (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling
SIRT4	Probable NAD-dependent deacetylase (By similarity)	Mitochondrial Signaling
AKAP10	domain:RII-alpha binding site, predicted to form an amphipathic helix, could participate in protein-protein interactions with a complementary surface on the R-subunit dimerfunction:Differentially targeted protein that binds to type I and II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A and anchors them to the mitochondria or the plasma membrane. Although the physiological relevance between PKA and AKAPS with mitochondria is not fully understood, one idea is that BAD, a proapoptotic member, is phosphorylated and inactivated by mitochondria-anchored PKA. It cannot be excluded too that it may facilitate PKA as well as G protein signal transduction, by acting as an adapter for assembling multiprotein complexes. With its RGS domain, it could lead to the interaction to G-alpha proteins, providing a link between the signaling machinery and the downstream kinasesimilarity:Contains 2 RGS domainssubcellular location:Predominantly mitochondrial but also membrane associated and cytoplasmictissue specificity:Highly expressed in testis, kidney and lung, followed by brain, skeletal muscle, liver, spleen and heart. Also expressed in brown adipose tissue and pancreas	Mitochondrial Signaling
AMBRA1	developmental stage:At E8.5, it is detected throughout the neuroepithelium. At E11.5, it is highly expressed in the ventral-most part of the spinal cord, the encephalic vesicles, the neural retina, the limbs and the dorsal root ganglia. Later, it is expressed in the entire developing nervous system as well as in other tissues. In brain, strong expression is observed in the cortex, hippocampus and striatum of postnatal braindisruption phenotype:Mice display severe neural tube defects associated with autophagy impairment, accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins, unbalanced cell proliferation and excessive apoptotic cell deathfunction:Regulates autophagy and development of the nervous system. Involved in autophagy in controlling protein turnover during neuronal development, and in regulating normal cell survival and proliferationsimilarity:Contains 3 WD repeatssubunit:Interacts with BECN1. Probably forms a complex with BECN1 and PIK3C3	Mitophagy
ATG5	The protein encoded by this gene, in combination with autophagy protein 12, functions as an E1-like activating enzyme in a ubiquitin-like conjugating system. The encoded protein is involved in several cellular processes, including autophagic vesicle formation, mitochondrial quality control after oxidative damage, negative regulation of the innate antiviral immune response, lymphocyte development and proliferation, MHC II antigen presentation, adipocyte differentiation, and apoptosis. Several transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. 	Mitophagy
ATG9B	This gene functions in the regulation of autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway. This gene also functions as an antisense transcript in the posttranscriptional regulation of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase 3 gene, which has 3' overlap with this gene on the opposite strand. Mutations in this gene and disruption of the autophagy process have been associated with multiple cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy
BECN1	This gene encodes a protein that regulates autophagy, a catabolic process of degradation induced by starvation. The encoded protein is a component of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) complex which mediates vesicle-trafficking processes. This protein is thought to play a role in multiple cellular processes, including tumorigenesis, neurodegeneration and apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy
BECN2	involved in autophagy, mitophagy; endosome to lysosome transport; cellular response to nitrogen starvation; autophagosome assembly;	Mitophagy
CALCOCO2	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein functions as a receptor for ubiquitin-coated bacteria and plays an important role in innate immunity by mediating macroautophagy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. 	Mitophagy
CITED2	The protein encoded by this gene inhibits transactivation of HIF1A-induced genes by competing with binding of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha to p300-CH1. Mutations in this gene are a cause of cardiac septal defects. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.	Mitophagy
GABARAP	Ubiquitin-like modifier that plays a role in intracellular transport of GABA(A) receptors and its interaction with the cytoskeleton. Involved in apoptosis. Involved in autophagy. Whereas LC3s are involved in elongation of the phagophore membrane, the GABARAP/GATE-16 subfamily is essential for a later stage in autophagosome maturation. 	Mitophagy
OPTN	This gene encodes the coiled-coil containing protein optineurin. Optineurin may play a role in normal-tension glaucoma and adult-onset primary open angle glaucoma. Optineurin interacts with adenovirus E3-14.7K protein and may utilize tumor necrosis factor-alpha or Fas-ligand pathways to mediate apoptosis, inflammation or vasoconstriction. Optineurin may also function in cellular morphogenesis and membrane trafficking, vesicle trafficking, and transcription activation through its interactions with the RAB8, huntingtin, and transcription factor IIIA proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Has been implicated in Mitophagy.	Mitophagy
PRKN	The precise function of this gene is unknown; however, the encoded protein is a component of a multiprotein E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that mediates the targeting of substrate proteins for proteasomal degradation. Mutations in this gene are known to cause Parkinson disease and autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinson disease. Alternative splicing of this gene produces multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional splice variants of this gene have been described but currently lack transcript support.	Mitophagy
RAB7B	Controls vesicular trafficking from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Acts as a negative regulator of TLR9 signaling and can suppress TLR9-triggered TNFA, IL6, and IFNB production in macrophages by promoting TLR9 lysosomal degradation. Also negatively regulates TLR4 signaling in macrophages by promoting lysosomal degradation of TLR4. Promotes megakaryocytic differentiation by increasing NF-kappa-B-dependent IL6 production and subsequently enhancing the association of STAT3 with GATA1. Not involved in the regulation of the EGF- and EGFR degradation pathway. 	Mitophagy
RRAS2	This gene encodes a member of the R-Ras subfamily of Ras-like small GTPases. The encoded protein associates with the plasma membrane and may function as a signal transducer. This protein may play an important role in activating signal transduction pathways that control cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are associated with the growth of certain tumors. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1 and 2. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy
TAX1BP1	This gene encodes a HTLV-1 tax1 binding protein. The encoded protein interacts with TNFAIP3, and inhibits TNF-induced apoptosis by mediating the TNFAIP3 anti-apoptotic activity. Degradation of this protein by caspase-3-like family proteins is associated with apoptosis induced by TNF. This protein may also have a role in the inhibition of inflammatory signaling pathways. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.	Mitophagy
TBC1D15	This gene encodes a member of the Ras-like proteins in brain-GTPase activating protein superfamily that share a conserved Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16 domain. The encoded protein interacts with Ras-like protein in brain 5A and may function as a regulator of intracellular trafficking. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy
TBK1	The NF-kappa-B (NFKB) complex of proteins is inhibited by I-kappa-B (IKB) proteins, which inactivate NFKB by trapping it in the cytoplasm. Phosphorylation of serine residues on the IKB proteins by IKB kinases marks them for destruction via the ubiquitination pathway, thereby allowing activation and nuclear translocation of the NFKB complex. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to IKB kinases and can mediate NFKB activation in response to certain growth factors.	Mitophagy
ULK1	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in autophagy in response to starvation. Acts upstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase PIK3C3 to regulate the formation of autophagophores, the precursors of autophagosomes. Part of regulatory feedback loops in autophagy: acts both as a downstream effector and negative regulator of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) via interaction with RPTOR. Activated via phosphorylation by AMPK and also acts as a regulator of AMPK by mediating phosphorylation of AMPK subunits PRKAA1, PRKAB2 and PRKAG1, leading to negatively regulate AMPK activity. May phosphorylate ATG13/KIAA0652 and RPTOR; however such data need additional evidences. Plays a role early in neuronal differentiation and is required for granule cell axon formation. May also phosphorylate SESN2 and SQSTM1 to regulate autophagy (PubMed:25040165). 	Mitophagy
USP15	This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin specific protease (USP) family of deubiquitinating enzymes. USP enzymes play critical roles in ubiquitin-dependent processes through polyubiquitin chain disassembly and hydrolysis of ubiquitin-substrate bonds. The encoded protein associates with the COP9 signalosome, and also plays a role in transforming growth factor beta signalling through deubiquitination of receptor-activated SMAD transcription factors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.	Mitophagy
USP8	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the ubiquitin-specific processing protease family of proteins. The encoded protein is thought to regulate the morphology of the endosome by ubiquitination of proteins on this organelle and is involved in cargo sorting and membrane trafficking at the early endosome stage. This protein is required for the cell to enter the S phase of the cell cycle and also functions as a positive regulator in the Hedgehog signaling pathway in development. Pseudogenes of this gene are present on chromosomes 2 and 6. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy
PGAM5	Displays phosphatase activity for serine/threonine residues, and, dephosphorylates and activates MAP3K5 kinase. Has apparently no phosphoglycerate mutase activity. May be regulator of mitochondrial dynamics. Substrate for a KEAP1-dependent ubiquitin ligase complex. Contributes to the repression of NFE2L2-dependent gene expression. Acts as a central mediator for programmed necrosis induced by TNF, by reactive oxygen species and by calcium ionophore. 	Mitophagy
PINK1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that localizes to mitochondria. It is thought to protect cells from stress-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Mutations in this gene cause one form of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Mitophagy
NBR1	The protein encoded by this gene was originally identified as an ovarian tumor antigen monitored in ovarian cancer. The encoded protein contains a B-box/coiled-coil motif, which is present in many genes with transformation potential. It functions as a specific autophagy receptor for the selective autophagic degradation of peroxisomes by forming intracellular inclusions with ubiquitylated autophagic substrates. This gene is located on a region of chromosome 17q21.1 that is in close proximity to the BRCA1 tumor suppressor gene. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.	Mitophagy
ARG1	catalytic activity:L-arginine + H(2)O = L-ornithine + ureacofactor:Binds 2 manganese ions per subunitpathway:Nitrogen metabolism; urea cycle; L-ornithine and urea from L-arginine: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the arginase familysubunit:Homotrimer	Nitrogen Metabolism
ASL	catalytic activity:2-(N(omega)-L-arginino)succinate = fumarate + L-argininepathway:Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-arginine biosynthesis; L-arginine from L-ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate: step 3/3pathway:Nitrogen metabolism; urea cycle; L-arginine and fumarate from N(omega)-(L-arginino)succinic acid: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the lyase 1 family. Argininosuccinate lyase subfamilysubunit:Homotetramer	Nitrogen Metabolism
NAGS	Plays a role in the regulation of ureagenesis by producing variable amounts of N-acetylglutamate (NAG), thus modulating carbamoylphosphate synthase I (CPSI) activity	Nitrogen Metabolism
CPS1	Involved in the urea cycle of ureotelic animals where the enzyme plays an important role in removing excess ammonia from the cell	Nitrogen Metabolism
CAR5B	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	Nitrogen Metabolism
DDAH1	catalytic activity:N(omega),N(omega)-dimethyl-L-arginine + H(2)O = dimethylamine + L-citrullinecofactor:Binds 1 zinc ionfunction:Hydrolyzes N(G),N(G)-dimethyl-L-arginine (ADMA) and N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (MMA) which act as inhibitors of NOS. Has therefore a role in nitric oxide generationsimilarity:Belongs to the DDAH familysubunit:Monomer	Nitrogen Metabolism
ARG2	May play a role in the regulation of extra-urea cycle arginine metabolism and also in down-regulation of nitric oxide synthesis (By similarity)	Nitrogen Metabolism
OTC	catalytic activity:Carbamoyl phosphate + L-ornithine = phosphate + L-citrullinedisease:Defects in Otc are the cause of the Sparse fur (spf) phenotype. Spf mouse have an OTCase with an overall decrease in activity, and altered substrate affinitypathway:Nitrogen metabolism; urea cycle; L-citrulline from L-ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the ATCase/OTCase familysubunit:Homotrimer	Nitrogen Metabolism
CAR5A	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	Nitrogen Metabolism
1110058L19RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1110058L19 gene	Unknown MT process
D10JHU81E	DNA segment, Chr 10, Johns Hopkins University 81 expressed	Unknown MT process
PET112	PET112 homolog (S. cerevisiae)	Unknown MT process
C1QBP	complement component 1, q subcomponent binding protein	Unknown MT process
LACE1	lactation elevated 1	Unknown MT process
ACN9	ACN9 homolog (S. cerevisiae)	Unknown MT process
HSDL2	hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase like 2	Unknown MT process
ADCK3	aarF domain containing kinase 3	Unknown MT process
2310061I04RIK	RIKEN cDNA 2310061I04 gene	Unknown MT process
VWA8	von Willebrand factor A domain containing 8	Unknown MT process
ADCK5	aarF domain containing kinase 5	Unknown MT process
PYURF	Pigy upstream reading frame	Unknown MT process
TMEM14C	transmembrane protein 14C	Unknown MT process
SPRYD4	SPRY domain containing 4	Unknown MT process
FAM210A	family with sequence similarity 210, member A	Unknown MT process
ZADH2	zinc binding alcohol dehydrogenase, domain containing 2	Unknown MT process
2410015M20RIK	RIKEN cDNA 2410015M20 gene	Unknown MT process
GBAS	glioblastoma amplified sequence	Unknown MT process
SPR	sepiapterin reductase	Unknown MT process
APOA1BP	apolipoprotein A-I binding protein	Unknown MT process
1110001J03RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1110001J03 gene	Unknown MT process
FTSJ2	FtsJ homolog 2 (E. coli)	Unknown MT process
SLMO2	slowmo homolog 2 (Drosophila)	Unknown MT process
0610009O20RIK	RIKEN cDNA 0610009O20 gene	Unknown MT process
OXLD1	oxidoreductase like domain containing 1	Unknown MT process
GM4984	predicted pseudogene 4984	Unknown MT process
9430016H08RIK	RIKEN cDNA 9430016H08 gene	Unknown MT process
2010107E04RIK	RIKEN cDNA 2010107E04 gene	Unknown MT process
HAO2	hydroxyacid oxidase 2	Unknown MT process
RDH14	retinol dehydrogenase 14 (all-trans and 9-cis)	Unknown MT process
CROT	carnitine O-octanoyltransferase	Unknown MT process
1810043H04RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1810043H04 gene	Unknown MT process
XRCC6BP1	XRCC6 binding protein 1	Unknown MT process
DCAKD	dephospho-CoA kinase domain containing	Unknown MT process
SDR39U1	short chain dehydrogenase/reductase family 39U, member 1	Unknown MT process
ABCD2	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family D (ALD), member 2	Unknown MT process
SQRDL	sulfide quinone reductase-like (yeast)	Unknown MT process
9030617O03RIK	RIKEN cDNA 9030617O03 gene	Unknown MT process
GRHPR	glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase	Unknown MT process
STOM	stomatin	Unknown MT process
GLOD4	glyoxalase domain containing 4	Unknown MT process
FHIT	fragile histidine triad gene	Unknown MT process
RFK	riboflavin kinase	Unknown MT process
DHRS1	dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR family) member 1	Unknown MT process
SLMO1	slowmo homolog 1 (Drosophila)	Unknown MT process
TSTD3	thiosulfate sulfurtransferase (rhodanese)-like domain containing 3	Unknown MT process
ADCK4	aarF domain containing kinase 4	Unknown MT process
AKR7A5	aldo-keto reductase family 7, member A5 (aflatoxin aldehyde reductase)	Unknown MT process
PNPO	pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase	Unknown MT process
PPM1M	protein phosphatase 1M	Unknown MT process
METTL5	methyltransferase like 5	Unknown MT process
4933405O20RIK	RIKEN cDNA 4933405O20 gene	Unknown MT process
2410018M08RIK	RIKEN cDNA 2410018M08 gene	Unknown MT process
BLOC1S1	biogenesis of lysosomal organelles complex-1, subunit 1	Unknown MT process
ACLY	ATP citrate lyase	Unknown MT process
FAM136A	family with sequence similarity 136, member A	Unknown MT process
GYKL1	glycerol kinase-like 1	Unknown MT process
PXMP4	peroxisomal membrane protein 4	Unknown MT process
NUDT8	nudix (nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X)-type motif 8	Unknown MT process
HINT3	histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 3	Unknown MT process
PHYH	phytanoyl-CoA hydroxylase	Unknown MT process
GUK1	guanylate kinase 1	Unknown MT process
1700071K01RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1700071K01 gene	Unknown MT process
2610507B11RIK	RIKEN cDNA 2610507B11 gene	Unknown MT process
DHRS7B	dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR family) member 7B	Unknown MT process
GM2382	predicted gene 2382	Unknown MT process
HTATIP2	HIV-1 tat interactive protein 2, homolog (human)	Unknown MT process
CARKD	carbohydrate kinase domain containing	Unknown MT process
PCBD2	pterin 4 alpha carbinolamine dehydratase/dimerization cofactor of hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha (TCF1) 2	Unknown MT process
SCP2	sterol carrier protein 2, liver	Unknown MT process
RAB24	RAB24, member RAS oncogene family	Unknown MT process
CCDC109B	coiled-coil domain containing 109B	Unknown MT process
ALDH1A7	aldehyde dehydrogenase family 1, subfamily A7	Unknown MT process
CCBL2	cysteine conjugate-beta lyase 2	Unknown MT process
CTU1	cytosolic thiouridylase subunit 1 homolog (S. pombe)	Unknown MT process
AS3MT	arsenic (+3 oxidation state) methyltransferase	Unknown MT process
TMEM205	transmembrane protein 205	Unknown MT process
DBI	diazepam binding inhibitor	Unknown MT process
TUBB3	tubulin, beta 3 class III	Unknown MT process
EPHX2	epoxide hydrolase 2, cytoplasmic	Unknown MT process
SDSL	serine dehydratase-like	Unknown MT process
MTCP1	mature T cell proliferation 1	Unknown MT process
SMIM20	small integral membrane protein 20	Unknown MT process
BC026585	cDNA sequence BC026585	Unknown MT process
PXMP2	peroxisomal membrane protein 2	Unknown MT process
CBR2	carbonyl reductase 2	Unknown MT process
CHPT1	choline phosphotransferase 1	Unknown MT process
ARF5	ADP-ribosylation factor 5	Unknown MT process
ANKRD26	ankyrin repeat domain 26	Unknown MT process
0610012H03RIK	RIKEN cDNA 0610012H03 gene	Unknown MT process
GM561	predicted gene 561	Unknown MT process
HEBP1	heme binding protein 1	Unknown MT process
PTPMT1	protein tyrosine phosphatase, mitochondrial 1	Unknown MT process
CBR3	carbonyl reductase 3	Unknown MT process
TYSND1	trypsin domain containing 1	Unknown MT process
1110001A16RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1110001A16 gene	Unknown MT process
ERI3	exoribonuclease 3	Unknown MT process
ADCK2	aarF domain containing kinase 2	Unknown MT process
OSBPL1A	oxysterol binding protein-like 1A	Unknown MT process
EEFSEC	eukaryotic elongation factor, selenocysteine-tRNA-specific	Unknown MT process
RDH11	retinol dehydrogenase 11	Unknown MT process
FTH1	ferritin heavy chain 1	Unknown MT process
ACOX3	acyl-Coenzyme A oxidase 3, pristanoyl	Unknown MT process
PEX11B	peroxisomal biogenesis factor 11 beta	Unknown MT process
NUDT5	nudix (nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X)-type motif 5	Unknown MT process
ABCB9	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP), member 9	Unknown MT process
RAB35	RAB35, member RAS oncogene family	Unknown MT process
PTPN4	protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 4	Unknown MT process
CCDC51	coiled-coil domain containing 51	Unknown MT process
TTC7B	tetratricopeptide repeat domain 7B	Unknown MT process
FLAD1	RFad1, flavin adenine dinucleotide synthetase, homolog (yeast)	Unknown MT process
NDOR1	NADPH dependent diflavin oxidoreductase 1	Unknown MT process
TMBIM4	transmembrane BAX inhibitor motif containing 4	Unknown MT process
ATXN2	ataxin 2	Unknown MT process
THNSL1	threonine synthase-like 1 (bacterial)	Unknown MT process
HINT1	histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 1	Unknown MT process
OBSCN	obscurin, cytoskeletal calmodulin and titin-interacting RhoGEF	Unknown MT process
YBEY	ybeY metallopeptidase	Unknown MT process
GM4952	predicted gene 4952	Unknown MT process
FABP1	fatty acid binding protein 1, liver	Unknown MT process
METTL15	methyltransferase like 15	Unknown MT process
ACOX1	acyl-Coenzyme A oxidase 1, palmitoyl	Unknown MT process
PROSC	proline synthetase co-transcribed	Unknown MT process
NUDT6	nudix (nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X)-type motif 6	Unknown MT process
ATP5SL	ATP5S-like	Unknown MT process
NT5DC3	5'-nucleotidase domain containing 3	Unknown MT process
ARL2	ADP-ribosylation factor-like 2	Unknown MT process
KRT5	keratin 5	Unknown MT process
METTL8	methyltransferase like 8	Unknown MT process
OCIAD1	OCIA domain containing 1	Unknown MT process
FAM213A	family with sequence similarity 213, member A	Unknown MT process
DCXR	dicarbonyl L-xylulose reductase	Unknown MT process
IFI27	interferon, alpha-inducible protein 27	Unknown MT process
ABCA9	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family A (ABC1), member 9	Unknown MT process
2300009A05RIK	RIKEN cDNA 2300009A05 gene	Unknown MT process
MMACHC	methylmalonic aciduria cblC type, with homocystinuria	Unknown MT process
ISOC2A	isochorismatase domain containing 2a	Unknown MT process
RPS15A	ribosomal protein S15A	Unknown MT process
SND1	staphylococcal nuclease and tudor domain containing 1	Unknown MT process
FAM185A	family with sequence similarity 185, member A	Unknown MT process
USMG5	upregulated during skeletal muscle growth 5	Unknown MT process
RMDN3	regulator of microtubule dynamics 3	Unknown MT process
SCCPDH	saccharopine dehydrogenase (putative)	Unknown MT process
NME3	NME/NM23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase 3	Unknown MT process
ACYP2	acylphosphatase 2, muscle type	Unknown MT process
PAICS	phosphoribosylaminoimidazole carboxylase, phosphoribosylaminoribosylaminoimidazole, succinocarboxamide synthetase	Unknown MT process
CCT7	chaperonin containing Tcp1, subunit 7 (eta)	Unknown MT process
P4HB	prolyl 4-hydroxylase, beta polypeptide	Unknown MT process
CRYZ	crystallin, zeta	Unknown MT process
COMTD1	catechol-O-methyltransferase domain containing 1	Unknown MT process
TXNDC12	thioredoxin domain containing 12 (endoplasmic reticulum)	Unknown MT process
DUSP26	dual specificity phosphatase 26 (putative)	Unknown MT process
HDHD3	haloacid dehalogenase-like hydrolase domain containing 3	Unknown MT process
TDRKH	tudor and KH domain containing protein	Unknown MT process
COMT	catechol-O-methyltransferase	Unknown MT process
CRY1	cryptochrome 1 (photolyase-like)	Unknown MT process
CCDC127	coiled-coil domain containing 127	Unknown MT process
PREPL	prolyl endopeptidase-like	Unknown MT process
GNG5	guanine nucleotide binding protein (G protein), gamma 5	Unknown MT process
1110008F13RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1110008F13 gene	Unknown MT process
CEP89	centrosomal protein 89	Unknown MT process
EMC2	ER membrane protein complex subunit 2	Unknown MT process
SPTLC2	serine palmitoyltransferase, long chain base subunit 2	Unknown MT process
E130311K13RIK	RIKEN cDNA E130311K13 gene	Unknown MT process
AGR2	anterior gradient 2	Unknown MT process
NT5C	5',3'-nucleotidase, cytosolic	Unknown MT process
DUS2	dihydrouridine synthase 2	Unknown MT process
FKBP10	FK506 binding protein 10	Unknown MT process
GOLPH3	golgi phosphoprotein 3	Unknown MT process
RAB32	RAB32, member RAS oncogene family	Unknown MT process
NT5DC2	5'-nucleotidase domain containing 2	Unknown MT process
Sep-04	septin 4	Unknown MT process
NUCB2	nucleobindin 2	Unknown MT process
TCIRG1	T cell, immune regulator 1, ATPase, H+ transporting, lysosomal V0 protein A3	Unknown MT process
RCN2	reticulocalbin 2	Unknown MT process
1110008L16RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1110008L16 gene	Unknown MT process
LAMC1	laminin, gamma 1	Unknown MT process
STX17	syntaxin 17	Unknown MT process
CDC25C	cell division cycle 25C	Unknown MT process
PICK1	protein interacting with C kinase 1	Unknown MT process
PAK7	p21 protein (Cdc42/Rac)-activated kinase 7	Unknown MT process
DMPK	dystrophia myotonica-protein kinase	Unknown MT process
PRSS35	protease, serine 35	Unknown MT process
PABPC5	poly(A) binding protein, cytoplasmic 5	Unknown MT process
GIMAP3	GTPase, IMAP family member 3	Unknown MT process
ATP10D	ATPase, class V, type 10D	Unknown MT process
SPATA20	spermatogenesis associated 20	Unknown MT process
PLGRKT	plasminogen receptor, C-terminal lysine transmembrane protein	Unknown MT process
SECISBP2	SECIS binding protein 2	Unknown MT process
RAB11FIP5	RAB11 family interacting protein 5 (class I)	Unknown MT process
NCOA4	nuclear receptor coactivator 4	Unknown MT process
1700066M21RIK	RIKEN cDNA 1700066M21 gene	Unknown MT process
8430408G22RIK	RIKEN cDNA 8430408G22 gene	Unknown MT process
CSTAD	CSA-conditional, T cell activation-dependent protein	Unknown MT process
SNAP29	synaptosomal-associated protein 29	Unknown MT process
CECR5	cat eye syndrome chromosome region, candidate 5	Unknown MT process
MOCS1	molybdenum cofactor synthesis 1	Unknown MT process
MACROD1	MACRO domain containing 1	Nucleotide Metabolism
DTYMK	catalytic activity:ATP + dTMP = ADP + dTDPfunction:Catalyzes the conversion of dTMP to dTDPpathway:Pyrimidine metabolism; dTTP biosynthesissimilarity:Belongs to the thymidylate kinase family	Nucleotide Metabolism
Mar-01	Probable oxidoreductase (By similarity)	Nucleotide Metabolism
NME1	This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcript levels in highly metastatic cells. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) exists as a hexamer composed of 'A' (encoded by this gene) and 'B' (encoded by NME2) isoforms. Mutations in this gene have been identified in aggressive neuroblastomas. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. 	Nucleotide Metabolism
TYMS	catalytic activity:5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate + dUMP = dihydrofolate + dTMPpathway:Pyrimidine metabolism; dTTP biosynthesissimilarity:Belongs to the thymidylate synthase familysubunit:Homodimer	Nucleotide Metabolism
AK3	catalytic activity:NTP + AMP = NDP + ADPsimilarity:Belongs to the adenylate kinase familysubunit:Monomer	Nucleotide Metabolism
AK4	Catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between ATP and AMP. May also be active with GTP (By similarity)	Nucleotide Metabolism
Mar-02	Catalytic component of the benzamidoxime prodrug- converting complex, a complex required to reduce N-hydroxylated structures, such as benzamidoxime (By similarity)	Nucleotide Metabolism
AK2	Catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between ATP and AMP. This small ubiquitous enzyme involved in energy metabolism and nucleotide synthesis that is essential for maintenance and cell growth. Plays a key role in hematopoiesis (By similarity)	Nucleotide Metabolism
DUT	similarity: This enzyme is involved in nucleotide metabolism: it produces dUMP, the immediate precursor of thymidine nucleotides and it decreases the intracellular concentration of dUTP so that uracil cannot be incorporated into DNA	Nucleotide Metabolism
NUDT13	similarity:Belongs to the Nudix hydrolase familysimilarity:Contains 1 nudix hydrolase domain	Nucleotide Metabolism
NME4	Major role in the synthesis of nucleoside triphosphates other than ATP. The ATP gamma phosphate is transferred to the NDP beta phosphate via a ping-pong mechanism, using a phosphorylated active-site intermediate	Nucleotide Metabolism
NUDT9	Hydrolyzes ADP-ribose (ADPR) to AMP and ribose 5'- phosphate	Nucleotide Metabolism
NME6	Major role in the synthesis of nucleoside triphosphates other than ATP. The ATP gamma phosphate is transferred to the NDP beta phosphate via a ping-pong mechanism, using a phosphorylated active-site intermediate	Nucleotide Metabolism
DHODH	catalytic activity:(S)-dihydroorotate + O(2) = orotate + H(2)O(2)cofactor:Binds 1 FAD per subunitpathway:Pyrimidine metabolism; UMP biosynthesis via de novo pathway; UMP from HCO(3)(-): step 4/6similarity:Belongs to the dihydroorotate dehydrogenase family	Nucleotide Metabolism
ATIC	catalytic activity:10-formyltetrahydrofolate + 5-amino-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamide = tetrahydrofolate + 5-formamido-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamidecatalytic activity:IMP + H(2)O = 5-formamido-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamidedomain:The IMP cyclohydrolase activity resides in the N-terminal regionpathway:Purine metabolism; IMP biosynthesis via de novo pathway; 5-formamido-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamide from 5-amino-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamide (10-formyl THF route): step 1/1pathway:Purine metabolism; IMP biosynthesis via de novo pathway; IMP from 5-formamido-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamide: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the purH family	Nucleotide Metabolism
ATP5MD	similarity: part of the mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase complex	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5MPL	similarity: part of the mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase complex	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP6V1E1	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase essential for assembly or catalytic function. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COQ8A	May be a chaperone-like protein essential for the proper conformation and functioning of protein complexes in the respiratory chain	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COQ8B	The function of this protein is not yet clear. It is not known if it has protein kinase activity and what type of substrate it would phosphorylate (Ser, Thr or Tyr)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX7B2	similarity: This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
DMAC1	similarity: mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation
DMAC2	similarity: contributes_to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity, mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation
DMAC2L	similarity: contributes_to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity, mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation
DONSON	function:Essential for DNA amplification in the ovary and required for cell proliferation during developmentsimilarity:Belongs to the DONSON family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ETFRF1	similarity: similarity:Belongs to the complex I LYR family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
FMC1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0562 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
GPD1	catalytic activity:sn-glycerol 3-phosphate + NAD(+) = glycerone phosphate + NADHsimilarity:Belongs to the NAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homodimer	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF8	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB1-PS	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NIPSNAP2	similarity: This gene encodes a member of the NipSnap family of proteins that may be involved in vesicular transport. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and plays a role in oxidative phosphorylation. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHAF3	similarity:Belongs to the ACN9 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHAF4	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0369 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
TMEM126B	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM126 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCC3	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0723 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CYC1	This is the heme-containing component of the cytochrome b-c1 complex, which accepts electrons from Rieske protein and transfers electrons to cytochrome c in the mitochondrial respiratory chain (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5D	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP turnover in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(1) domain and of the central stalk which is part of the complex rotary element. Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCRC1	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This protein may mediate formation of the complex between cytochromes c and c1 (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX5A	This is the heme A-containing chain of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCRFS1	Component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is a respiratory chain that generates an electrochemical potential coupled to ATP synthesisThe transit peptide of the Rieske protein seems to form part of the bc1 complex and is considered to be the subunit 11/IX of that complex (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHA	Flavoprotein (FP) subunit of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that is involved in complex II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHB	Iron-sulfur protein (IP) subunit of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that is involved in complex II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5A1	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Subunits alpha and beta form the catalytic core in F(1). Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits. Subunit alpha does not bear the catalytic high-affinity ATP-binding sites (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHD	Membrane-anchoring subunit of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that is involved in complex II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCRC2	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The core protein 2 is required for the assembly of the complex (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCRQ	function:This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This subunit, together with cytochrome b, binds to ubiquinonesimilarity:Belongs to the UQCRQ/QCR8 familysubunit:The bc1 complex contains 11 subunits: 3 respiratory subunits (cytochrome b, cytochrome c1 and Rieske/UQCRFS1), 2 core proteins (UQCRC1/QCR1 and UQCRC2/QCR2) and 6 low-molecular weight proteins (UQCRH/QCR6, UQCRB/QCR7, UQCRQ/QCR8, UQCR10/QCR9, UQCR11/QCR10 and a cleavage product of Rieske/UQCRFS1)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCR10	function:This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This subunit interacts with cytochrome c1similarity:Belongs to the UQCR10/QCR9 familysubunit:The bc1 complex contains 11 subunits: 3 respiratory subunits (cytochrome b, cytochrome c1 and Rieske/UQCRFS1), 2 core proteins (UQCRC1/QCR1 and UQCRC2/QCR2) and 6 low-molecular weight proteins (UQCRH/QCR6, UQCRB/QCR7, UQCRQ/QCR8, UQCR10/QCR9, UQCR11/QCR10 and a cleavage product of Rieske/UQCRFS1)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5E	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(1) domain and of the central stalk which is part of the complex rotary element. Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHC	Mono-heme cytochrome b. May act as a mediator of low potential couples in an electron flow through cardiac complex II. Is involved in system II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain which is responsible for transferring electrons from succinate to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5B	catalytic activity:ATP + H(2)O + H(+)(In) = ADP + phosphate + H(+)(Out)function:Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Subunits alpha and beta form the catalytic core in F(1). Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunitsPTM:Acetylation of Lys-133 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the ATPase alpha/beta chains familysubcellular location:Peripheral membrane proteinsubunit:F-type ATPases have 2 components, CF(1) - the catalytic core - and CF(0) - the membrane proton channel. CF(1) has five subunits: alpha(3), beta(3), gamma(1), delta(1), epsilon(1). CF(0) has three main subunits: a, b and c	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ETFA	cofactor:Binds 1 FAD per dimerfunction:The electron transfer flavoprotein serves as a specific electron acceptor for several dehydrogenases, including five acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, glutaryl-CoA and sarcosine dehydrogenase. It transfers the electrons to the main mitochondrial respiratory chain via ETF-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF dehydrogenase)similarity:Belongs to the ETF alpha-subunit/fixB familysubunit:Heterodimer of an alpha and a beta subunit	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS1	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity). This is the largest subunit of complex I and it is a component of the iron-sulfur (IP) fragment of the enzyme. It may form part of the active site crevice where NADH is oxidized (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX11	Exerts its effect at some terminal stage of cytochrome c oxidase synthesis, probably by being involved in the insertion of the copper B into subunit I (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5O	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX15	May be involved in the biosynthesis of heme A (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCRH	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This protein may mediate formation of the complex between cytochromes c and c1 (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
HIGD2A	similarity:Contains 1 HIG1 domain	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ETFDH	catalytic activity:Reduced electron-transferring flavoprotein + ubiquinone = electron-transferring flavoprotein + ubiquinolcofactor:Binds 1 4Fe-4S clustercofactor:FADfunction:Accepts electrons from ETF and reduces ubiquinonePTM:Acetylation of Lys-95 and Lys-222 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the ETF-QO/fixC familysimilarity:Contains 1 4Fe-4S ferredoxin-type domainsubunit:Monomer	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX6A1	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFV2	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5K	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. Minor subunit located with subunit a in the membrane	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA6	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATPAF2	May play a role in the assembly of the F1 component of the mitochondrial ATP synthase (ATPase) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
RTN4IP1	function:Appears to be a potent inhibitor of regeneration following spinal cord injurysimilarity:Belongs to the zinc-containing alcohol dehydrogenase family. Quinone oxidoreductase subfamilysubunit:Interacts with RTN4, UQCRC1 and UQCRC2tissue specificity:Widely expressed in mitochondria-enriched tissues. Found in heart, kidney, liver, brain and spinal cord	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHAF2	similarity: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein needed for the flavination of a succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit required for activity of the complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with paraganglioma.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB8	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFV1	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS2	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS8	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS7	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COQ10A	similarity:Belongs to the COQ10 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SURF1	function:Probably involved in the biogenesis of the COX complexsimilarity:Belongs to the SURF1 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5J	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements. Also involved in the restoration of oligomycin-sensitive ATPase activity to depleted F1-F0 complexes	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX7A2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS6	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB9	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX6C	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB5	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX6B1	Connects the two COX monomers into the physiological dimeric form (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA9	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA2	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX17	Copper chaperone for cytochrome c oxidase (COX). Binds two copper ions and deliver them to the Cu(A) site of COX (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCC1	developmental stage:Expressed mainly in the developing nervous system from 9.5 dpc onwards. Also detected in the developing eye and the brown fatinduction:Repressed by bFGF; in embryonic stem cellssequence caution:Translated as Leusimilarity:Belongs to the CBP3 familysubcellular location:Cytoplasmic vesicular structurestissue specificity:In the brain it is restricted to the olfactory bulb, the hippocampus, the piriform cortex and the Purkinje cells	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS4	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX4I1	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF4	May be involved in cell proliferation and survival of hormone-dependent tumor cells. Plays a role in complex I activity. May be a complex I assembly factor (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5C1	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(1) domain and the central stalk which is part of the complex rotary element. The gamma subunit protrudes into the catalytic domain formed of alpha(3)beta(3). Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunitsProduces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane. The gamma chain is believed to be important in regulating ATPase activity and the flow of protons through the CF(0) complex (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SDHAF1	similarity: The succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) complex (or complex II) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is composed of 4 individual subunits. The protein encoded by this gene resides in the mitochondria, and is essential for SDH assembly, but does not physically associate with the complex in vivo. Mutations in this gene are associated with SDH-defective infantile leukoencephalopathy (mitochondrial complex II deficiency).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB6	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA5	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX5B	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
BCS1L	function:Chaperone necessary for the assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IIIsimilarity:Belongs to the AAA ATPase family. BCS1 subfamily	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CMC1	Required for mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly and respiration. Binds copper. May be involved in copper trafficking and distribution to COX and SOD1 (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
LYRM7	similarity:Belongs to the complex I LYR family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COA6	similarity: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 6B family. The encoded protein associates with cytochrome c oxidase may act has an cytochrome c oxidase mitochondrial respiratory complex VI assembly factor. Mutations in this gene may be associated with fatal infantile cardiomyopathy. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014],	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS5	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF5	Putative methyltransferase involved in mitochondrial complex I assembly at early stages (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB10	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
HCCS	Links covalently the heme group to the apoprotein of cytochrome c (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA10	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SCO1	Thought to play a role in cellular copper homeostasis, mitochondrial redox signaling or insertion of copper into the active site of COX (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATPIF1	Thought to be a regulatory component of the ATP- synthesizing complex in the mitochondria	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX8B	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA7	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
TMEM70	function:Involved in biogenesis of mitochondrial ATP synthasesimilarity:Belongs to the TMEM70 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCRB	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This component is involved in redox-linked proton pumping (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX7C	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF1	function:Chaperone protein involved in the assembly of the mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I)similarity:Belongs to the CIA30 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFV3	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB2	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COQ10B	similarity:Belongs to the COQ10 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX7A1	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
OXA1L	Required for the insertion of integral membrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Essential for the activity and assembly of cytochrome oxidase (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5L	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. Minor subunit located with subunit a in the membrane	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFC2	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA8	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX14	similarity: This gene encodes a small single-pass transmembrane protein that localizes to mitochondria. This protein may play a role in coordinating the early steps of cytochrome c oxidase (COX; also known as complex IV) subunit assembly and, in particular, the synthesis and assembly of the COX I subunit of the holoenzyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX2	cytochrome c oxidase subunit II	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP6	ATP synthase F0 subunit 6	Oxidative Phosphorylation
GPD2	catalytic activity:sn-glycerol 3-phosphate + a quinone = glycerone phosphate + a quinolcofactor:FADenzyme regulation:Calcium-binding enhance the activity of the enzymepathway:Polyol metabolism; glycerol degradation via glycerol kinase pathway; glycerone phosphate from sn-glycerol 3-phosphate (anaerobic route): step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the FAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase familysimilarity:Contains 2 EF-hand domains	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX10	Converts protoheme IX and farnesyl diphosphate to heme O (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB11	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ETFB	cofactor:Binds 1 AMP per subunitcofactor:Binds 1 FAD per dimerfunction:The electron transfer flavoprotein serves as a specific electron acceptor for several dehydrogenases, including five acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, glutaryl-CoA and sarcosine dehydrogenase. It transfers the electrons to the main mitochondrial respiratory chain via ETF-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF dehydrogenase)similarity:Belongs to the ETF beta-subunit/fixA familysubunit:Heterodimer of an alpha and a beta subunit	Oxidative Phosphorylation
OXNAD1	oxidoreductase NAD-binding domain containing 1	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CYCS	Electron carrier protein. The oxidized form of the cytochrome c heme group can accept an electron from the heme group of the cytochrome c1 subunit of cytochrome reductase. Cytochrome c then transfers this electron to the cytochrome oxidase complex, the final protein carrier in the mitochondrial electron-transport chain	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CYCT	cytochrome c, testis	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CISD1	cofactor:Binds 1 2Fe-2S clusters per subunitfunction:Plays a key role in regulating maximal capacity for electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation. May be involved in Fe-S cluster shuttling and/or in redox reactionssimilarity:Belongs to the CISD protein familysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Liver, adipose, skeletal muscle and heart (at protein level). Widely expressed. Expressed at the highest levels in the heart	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX8A	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5G3	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. A homomeric c-ring of probably 10 subunits is part of the complex rotary element	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA12	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5F1	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5H	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements	Oxidative Phosphorylation
PTCD2	sequence caution:Contaminating sequence. Potential vector sequencesimilarity:Belongs to the PTCD2 familysimilarity:Contains 1 PPR (pentatricopeptide) repeat	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF6	Required for the function of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA4	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX16	Isoform 1 regulates endocytosis of activin type 2 receptor kinases through the Ral/RALBP1-dependent pathway and may be involved in suppression of activin-induced signal transduction. Isoform 2 and isoform 3 show a stimulatory affect on activin- induced signal transduction and enhance activin type 2 expression at the cell surface	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFS3	Core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) that is believed to belong to the minimal assembly required for catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COA5	similarity:Belongs to the PET191 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB7	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF7	similarity:Belongs to the midA family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFC1	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NUBPL	similarity:Belongs to the Mrp/NBP35 ATP-binding proteins family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA3	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAB1	Carrier of the growing fatty acid chain in fatty acid biosynthesis in mitochondria. Accessory and non-catalytic subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), which functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA13	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone. Involved in the interferon/all-trans-retinoic acid (IFN/RA) cell death pathway. May play a role in CARD15-mediated innate mucosal responses and serve to regulate intestinal epithelial cell responses to microbes (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX4I2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX7B	cytochrome c oxidase subunit VIIb	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB3	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA11	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX6A2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation
SCO2	Acts as a copper chaperone, transporting copper to the Cu(A) site on the cytochrome c oxidase subunit II (COX2) (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX18	Required for the insertion of integral membrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Essential for the activity and assembly of cytochrome c oxidase. Plays a central role in the translocation and export of the C-terminal part of the COX2 protein into the mitochondrial intermembrane space (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COA3	similarity:Belongs to the CCDC56 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
HIGD1A	induction:By hypoxiasimilarity:Contains 1 HIG1 domain	Oxidative Phosphorylation
TBRG4	May play a role in cell cycle progression (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX19	May be required for the assembly of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF2	function:Acts as a molecular chaperone for mitochondrial complex I assemblysimilarity:Belongs to the complex I NDUFA12 subunit family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCR11	This is a component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain (By similarity)This protein may be closely linked to the iron-sulfur protein in the complex and function as an iron-sulfur protein binding factor (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX6B2	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport. This protein may be one of the heme-binding subunits of the oxidase (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATPAF1	May play an essential role for the assembly of the mitochondrial F1-F0 complex (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
D2HGDH	Catalyzes the oxidation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
TTC19	similarity:Contains 4 TPR repeats	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX1	cytochrome c oxidase subunit I	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5J2	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. Minor subunit located with subunit a in the membrane	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ECSIT	function:Required for efficient assembly of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (By similarity). Adapter protein of the Toll-like and IL-1 receptor signaling pathway that is involved in the activation of NF-kappa-B via MAP3K1. Promotes proteolytic activation of MAP3K1. Involved in the BMP signaling pathway. Required for normal embryonic developmentsimilarity:Belongs to the ECSIT familysubunit:Interacts with NDUFAF1 (By similarity). Interacts with MAP3K1, SMAD4 and TRAF6. Interacts with SMAD1 only after BMP4-treatmenttissue specificity:Detected in heart, brain, lung, liver, skeletal muscle, kidney and testis. Detected in embryonic mesoderm and epiblast, and in extraembryonic ectoderm	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ND5	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 5	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ND4	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 4	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ND2	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NIPSNAP1	similarity:Belongs to the NipSnap family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5G2	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. A homomeric c-ring of probably 10 subunits is part of the complex rotary element	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX8C	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CYTB	cytochrome b	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFA1	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFB4	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CISD3	cofactor:Binds 2 2Fe-2S clusters per subunitsimilarity:Belongs to the CISD protein family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX3	cytochrome c oxidase subunit III	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP8	ATP synthase F0 subunit 8	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ND3	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 3	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ADCK1	The function of this protein is not yet clear. It is not known if it has protein kinase activity and what type of substrate it would phosphorylate (Ser, Thr or Tyr)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COA4	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX20	similarity:Belongs to the FAM36 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5G1	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. A homomeric c-ring of probably 10 subunits is part of the complex rotary element	Oxidative Phosphorylation
FOXRED1	cofactor:FAD	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COX7A2L	May be a regulatory subunit of cytochrome c oxidase that mediates the higher level of energy production in target cells by estrogen	Oxidative Phosphorylation
TSTD1	similarity: Possible role in tumorgenesis	Oxidative Phosphorylation
TMEM186	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM186 family	Oxidative Phosphorylation
NDUFAF3	Accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), that is believed to be not involved in catalysis. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone (By similarity)	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CISD2	cofactor:Binds 1 2Fe-2S clusterfunction:May play a role in calcium homeostasissimilarity:Belongs to the CISD protein familytissue specificity:Brain	Oxidative Phosphorylation
CYB5	cytochrome b-5	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ND1	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 1	Oxidative Phosphorylation
PET117	similarity:Contains 1 N-acetyltransferase domainsubcellular location:Mainly nuclearsubunit:Interacts with the LIM 1 domain of CSRP2	Oxidative Phosphorylation
COA7	similarity:Belongs to the hcp beta-lactamase familysimilarity:Contains 5 Sel1-like repeats	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ATP5S	ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F0 complex, subunit S	Oxidative Phosphorylation
AA467197	developmental stage:First detected at 8 dpc in the ossification center and the spinal cord. From this stage up to birth, expression extends throughout the bone tissue and strong expression is detected in the vertebrae. At 16 dpc, detected in the developing brain, including the prosencephalon, mesencephalon, diencephalon, telencephalon and rhombencephalon, and in the intestine. Faint expression at 16 dpc in the lungsimilarity:Belongs to the complex I NDUFA4 subunit familytissue specificity:Strongly expressed in vertebrae, brain, intestine and stomach	Oxidative Phosphorylation
UQCC2	similarity: This gene encodes a nucleoid protein localized to the mitochondria inner membrane. The encoded protein affects regulation of insulin secretion, mitochondrial ATP production, and myogenesis through modulation of mitochondrial respiratory chain activity. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012],	Oxidative Phosphorylation
ND6	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6	Oxidative Phosphorylation
MT-Atp6	contributes_to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism, mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled proton transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Atp8	contributes_to ATPase activity, mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled proton transport	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Co1	contributes_to cytochrome-c oxidase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Co2	contributes_to cytochrome-c oxidase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Co3	contributes_to cytochrome-c oxidase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Cytb	ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity, mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol to cytochrome c	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Nd1	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Nd2	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Nd3	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Nd4	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Nd4l	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Nd5	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
MT-Nd6	NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity, mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone	Oxidative Phosphorylation (MT)
G6PDX	catalytic activity:D-glucose 6-phosphate + NADP(+) = D-glucono-1,5-lactone 6-phosphate + NADPHmiscellaneous:Has NADP both as cofactor (bound to the N-terminal domain) and as structural element bound to the C-terminal domainpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; pentose phosphate pathwaypathway:Carbohydrate degradation; pentose phosphate pathway; D-ribulose 5-phosphate from D-glucose 6-phosphate (oxidative stage): step 1/3similarity:Belongs to the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase family	Pentose Phosphate Pathway
PGD	catalytic activity:6-phospho-D-gluconate + NADP(+) = D-ribulose 5-phosphate + CO(2) + NADPHpathway:Carbohydrate degradation; pentose phosphate pathway; D-ribulose 5-phosphate from D-glucose 6-phosphate (oxidative stage): step 3pathway:Carbohydrate degradation; pentose phosphate pathway; D-ribulose 5-phosphate from D-glucose 6-phosphate (oxidative stage): step 3/3similarity:Belongs to the 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homodimer	Pentose Phosphate Pathway
PGLS	Hydrolysis of 6-phosphogluconolactone to 6- phosphogluconate (By similarity)	Pentose Phosphate Pathway
RPE	catalytic activity:D-ribulose 5-phosphate = D-xylulose 5-phosphatesequence caution:Translated as stopsimilarity:Belongs to the ribulose-phosphate 3-epimerase family	Pentose Phosphate Pathway
TALDO1	Transaldolase is important for the balance of metabolites in the pentose-phosphate pathway (By similarity)	Pentose Phosphate Pathway
TKT	catalytic activity:Sedoheptulose 7-phosphate + D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate = D-ribose 5-phosphate + D-xylulose 5-phosphatecofactor:Binds 1 calcium ion per subunitcofactor:Binds 1 thiamine pyrophosphate per subunitsimilarity:Belongs to the transketolase familysubunit:Homodimer	Pentose Phosphate Pathway
RPIA	catalytic activity:D-ribose 5-phosphate = D-ribulose 5-phosphatepathway:Carbohydrate degradation; pentose phosphate pathway; D-ribose 5-phosphate from D-ribulose 5-phosphate (non-oxidative stage): step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the ribose 5-phosphate isomerase familytissue specificity:Found in the spleen, kidney, thymus, heart, brain and lung. Higher levels are found in testis	Pentose Phosphate Pathway
AFG1L	similarity: This gene encodes a mitochondrial integral membrane protein that plays a role in mitochondrial protein homeostasis. The protein contains a P-loop motif and a five-domain structure that is conserved in fly, yeast, and bacteria. It functions to mediate the degradation of nuclear-encoded complex IV subunits. Two conserved estrogen receptor binding sites are located within 2.5 kb of this gene. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with bipolar disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]	Protein Stability & Degradation
ATP23	The protein encoded by this gene is amplified in glioblastomas and interacts with the DNA binding subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase. This kinase is involved in double-strand break repair (DSB), and higher expression of the encoded protein increases the efficiency of DSB. In addition, comparison to orthologous proteins strongly suggests that this protein is a metalloprotease important in the biosynthesis of mitochondrial ATPase.	Protein Stability & Degradation
DNAJA1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the DnaJ family, whose members act as cochaperones of heat shock protein 70. Heat shock proteins facilitate protein folding, trafficking, prevention of aggregation, and proteolytic degradation. Members of this family are characterized by a highly conserved N-terminal J domain, a glycine/phenylalanine-rich region, four CxxCxGxG zinc finger repeats, and a C-terminal substrate-binding domain. The J domain mediates the interaction with heat shock protein 70 to recruit substrates and regulate ATP hydrolysis activity. Mice deficient for this gene display reduced levels of activation&#8208;induced deaminase, an enzyme that deaminates deoxycytidine at the immunoglobulin genes during immune responses. In addition, mice lacking this gene exhibit severe defects in spermatogenesis. Several pseudogenes of this gene are found on other chromosomes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants	Protein Stability & Degradation
HSPA1A	developmental stage:Specifically expressed in postmeiotic phases of spermatogenesisfunction:In cooperation with other chaperones, Hsp70s stabilize preexistent proteins against aggregation and mediate the folding of newly translated polypeptides in the cytosol as well as within organelles. These chaperones participate in all these processes through their ability to recognize nonnative conformations of other proteins. They bind extended peptide segments with a net hydrophobic character exposed by polypeptides during translation and membrane translocation, or following stress-induced damagesimilarity:Belongs to the heat shock protein 70 familysubunit:Interacts with IRAK1BP1 and TSC2 (By similarity). Interacts with KTUsubunit:Interacts with TSC2 (By similarity). Component of a sperm-specific complex with CATSPER1 and CATSPERBtissue specificity:Expressed in spermatidstissue specificity:Testis-specific	Protein Stability & Degradation
HSPA1B	developmental stage:Specifically expressed in postmeiotic phases of spermatogenesisfunction:In cooperation with other chaperones, Hsp70s stabilize preexistent proteins against aggregation and mediate the folding of newly translated polypeptides in the cytosol as well as within organelles. These chaperones participate in all these processes through their ability to recognize nonnative conformations of other proteins. They bind extended peptide segments with a net hydrophobic character exposed by polypeptides during translation and membrane translocation, or following stress-induced damagesimilarity:Belongs to the heat shock protein 70 familysubunit:Interacts with IRAK1BP1 and TSC2 (By similarity). Interacts with KTUsubunit:Interacts with TSC2 (By similarity). Component of a sperm-specific complex with CATSPER1 and CATSPERBtissue specificity:Expressed in spermatidstissue specificity:Testis-specific	Protein Stability & Degradation
RNF185	similarity:Contains 1 RING-type zinc finger	Protein Stability & Degradation
RNF5	Has E2-dependent E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. May function together with E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes UBE2D1/UBCH5A and UBE2D2/UBC4. Mediates ubiquitination of PXN/paxillin. May be involved in regulation of cell motility and localization of PXN/paxillin (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation
UBA1	Activates ubiquitin by first adenylating with ATP its carboxy-terminal glycine residue and thereafter linking this residue to the side chain of a cysteine residue in E1, yielding an ubiquitin-E1 thioester and free AMP (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation
LONP1	Required for intramitochondrial proteolysis. Catalyzes the initial steps of protein degradation. Hydrolyzes ATP and degrades protein and peptide substrates in an ATP-dependent manner. Binds to single-stranded but not to double-stranded DNA	Protein Stability & Degradation
PITRM1	cofactor:Binds 1 zinc ion per subunitfunction:ATP-independent protease that degrades mitochondrial transit peptides after their cleavage. Also degrades other unstructured peptides. Specific for peptides in the range of 10 to 65 residues. Shows a preference for cleavage after small polar residues and before basic residues, but without any positional preferenceinduction:Up-regulated transplantes nuclei derived from embryonic stem (ES) cellsPTM:The disulfide bond may lock the enzyme in a closed conformation under oxidized conditions, suggesting that it may participate in redox regulation of the enzymesimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase M16 family. PreP subfamilysubunit:Homodimer	Protein Stability & Degradation
CLPX	ATP-dependent specificity component of the Clp protease. It directs the protease to specific substrates. Can perform chaperone functions in the absence of clpP (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation
HSPA9	heat shock protein 9	Protein Stability & Degradation
HSPD1	Implicated in mitochondrial protein import and macromolecular assembly. May facilitate the correct folding of imported proteins. May also prevent misfolding and promote the refolding and proper assembly of unfolded polypeptides generated under stress conditions in the mitochondrial matrix	Protein Stability & Degradation
DNAJA3	domain:Modulation of apoptosis, i.e proapoptotic activity of isoform 1 and antiapoptotic activity of isoform 2, is J domain-dependentfunction:Modulates apoptotic signal transduction or effector structures within the mitochondrial matrix. Affect cytochrome C release from the mitochondria and caspase 3 activation, but not caspase 8 activation. Isoform 1 increases apoptosis triggered by both TNF and the DNA-damaging agent mytomycin C; in sharp contrast, isoform 2 suppresses apoptosis. Can modulate IFN-gamma-mediated transcriptional activityPTM:Phosphorylated upon DNA damage, probably by ATM or ATRPTM:Tyrosine phosphorylatedsimilarity:Contains 1 CR-type zinc fingersimilarity:Contains 1 J domainsubunit:Interacts with JAK2, HSPA9B and IFN-gammaR2 chain. Interacts with Ras GTPase-activating protein 1 (RASA1)	Protein Stability & Degradation
CLPP	Clp cleaves peptides in various proteins in a process that requires ATP hydrolysis. Clp may be responsible for a fairly general and central housekeeping function rather than for the degradation of specific substrates	Protein Stability & Degradation
CLPB	May function as a regulatory ATPase and be related to secretion/protein trafficking process	Protein Stability & Degradation
DNAJC11	similarity:Belongs to the DNAJC11 familysimilarity:Contains 1 J domain	Protein Stability & Degradation
ATAD1	similarity:Belongs to the AAA ATPase family	Protein Stability & Degradation
XPNPEP3	similarity: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of X-pro-aminopeptidases that utilize a metal cofactor, and remove the N-terminal amino acid from peptides with a proline residue in the penultimate position. This protein has been shown to localize to the mitochondria of renal cells, and have a role in ciliary function. Mutations in this gene are associated with nephronophthisis-like nephropathy-1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene, however, expression of some of these isoforms in vivo is not known.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011],	Protein Stability & Degradation
HRSP12	heat-responsive protein 12	Protein Stability & Degradation
NLN	Hydrolyzes oligopeptides such as neurotensin, bradykinin and dynorphin A (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation
DNAJC28	DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog, subfamily C, member 28	Protein Stability & Degradation
NRD1	Cleaves peptide substrates on the N-terminus of arginine residues in dibasic pairs	Protein Stability & Degradation
DNAJC30	similarity:Contains 1 J domain	Protein Stability & Degradation
TMEM177	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM177 family	Protein Stability & Degradation
DNAJC4	similarity:Contains 1 J domain	Protein Stability & Degradation
HSPB7	heat shock protein family, member 7 (cardiovascular)	Protein Stability & Degradation
PET100	similarity: Mitochondrial complex IV, or cytochrome c oxidase, is a large transmembrane protein complex that is part of the respiratory electron transport chain of mitochondria. The small protein encoded by this gene plays a role in the biogenesis of mitochondrial complex IV. This protein localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane and is exposed to the intermembrane space. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014],	Protein Stability & Degradation
MUL1	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that plays a role in the control of mitochondrial morphology. Promotes mitochondrial fragmentation and influences mitochondrial localization. Inhibits cell growth. When overexpressed, activates JNK through MAP3K7/TAK1 and induces caspase-dependent apoptosis. E3 ubiquitin ligases accept ubiquitin from an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme in the form of a thioester and then directly transfer the ubiquitin to targeted substrates (By similarity)	Protein Stability & Degradation
FKBP8	catalytic activity:Peptidylproline (omega=180) = peptidylproline (omega=0)cofactor:Calciumfunction:Constitutively inactive PPiase, which becomes active when bound to calmodulin and calcium. Seems to act as a chaperone for BCL2, targets it to the mitochondria and modulates its phosphorylation state. The BCL2/FKBP8/calmodulin/calcium complex probably interferes with the binding of BCL2 to its targets. The active form of FKBP8 may therefore play a role in the regulation of apoptosis (By similarity). Required for normal embryonic developmentmiscellaneous:Binds the immunosuppressant FK506 only in its calmodulin/calcium activated formsimilarity:Contains 1 PPIase FKBP-type domainsimilarity:Contains 3 TPR repeatssubunit:Homomultimers or heteromultimers (Potential). Forms heterodimer with calmodulin. When activated by calmodulin and calcium, interacts with the BH4 domain of BCL2 and weakly with BCLX isoform Bcl-X(L). Does not bind and inhibit calcineurintissue specificity:Detected throughout the embryonic body, in caudal neural tube, limbs and head. Detected in adult retina, brain, heart, kidney, liver, pancreas, lung, testis and urinary bladder (at protein level). Detected in adult brain, kidney, liver, testis and trigeminal nerve, and in embryo. Detected at lower levels in lung, spleen, heart and ovary. Widely expressed in forebrain. Detected in the Purkinje cell layer in the cerebellum and in hippocampus neurons	Protein Stability & Degradation
FBXL4	similarity:Contains 1 F-box domainsimilarity:Contains 8 LRR (leucine-rich) repeatssubunit:Part of a SCF (SKP1-cullin-F-box) protein ligase complex	Protein Stability & Degradation
ACSS2	Activates acetate so that it can be used for lipid synthesis or for energy generation	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDHA1	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDHB	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
DLAT	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
MPC2	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0041 (0-44) family	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDK4	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDK2	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism	Pyruvate Metabolism
ME3	catalytic activity:(S)-malate + NADP(+) = pyruvate + CO(2) + NADPHcofactor:Divalent metal cations. Prefers magnesium or manganesesimilarity:Belongs to the malic enzymes family	Pyruvate Metabolism
ADHFE1	catalytic activity:(S)-3-hydroxybutanoate + 2-oxoglutarate = acetoacetate + (R)-2-hydroxyglutaratecatalytic activity:2-oxoglutaric acid + 4-hydroxybutanoic acid = (R)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid + succinic semialdehydefunction:Catalyzes the cofactor-independent reversible oxidation of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) to succinic semialdehyde (SSA) coupled to reduction of 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG) to D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG). L-3-hydroxybutyrate (L-3-OHB) is also a substrate for HOT when using 2-KG as hydrogen acceptor, resulting in the formation of D-2-HGinduction:Down-regulated of 40% in white adipose tissue of ob/ob obese micesimilarity:Belongs to the iron-containing alcohol dehydrogenase family. Hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase subfamilytissue specificity:Expressed in white and brown adipose tissues, liver, and kidney. Expression is differentiation-dependent during in vitro brown and white adipogenesis	Pyruvate Metabolism
ACAD12	acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase family, member 12	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDK1	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDK3	Inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit, thus contributing to the regulation of glucose metabolism (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
HAGH	Thiolesterase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of S-D- lactoyl-glutathione to form glutathione and D-lactic acid	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDHA2	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	Pyruvate Metabolism
ME2	catalytic activity:(S)-malate + NAD(+) = pyruvate + CO(2) + NADHcofactor:Divalent metal cations. Prefers magnesium or manganeseenzyme regulation:Subject to allosteric activation by fumaratemiscellaneous:This isoenzyme can also use NADP(+) but is more effective with NAD(+)similarity:Belongs to the malic enzymes familysubunit:Homotetramer	Pyruvate Metabolism
L2HGDH	catalytic activity:(S)-2-hydroxyglutarate + acceptor = 2-oxoglutarate + reduced acceptorcofactor:FADsimilarity:Belongs to the L2HGDH family	Pyruvate Metabolism
LDHD	catalytic activity:(R)-lactate + 2 ferricytochrome c = pyruvate + 2 ferrocytochrome ccofactor:FADsimilarity:Belongs to the FAD-binding oxidoreductase/transferase type 4 familysimilarity:Contains 1 FAD-binding PCMH-type domainsubunit:Interacts with CSRP3tissue specificity:Readily detected in liver and kidney, with a weaker signal observed in heart, skeletal muscle, stomach, brain, and lung	Pyruvate Metabolism
GYK	glycerol kinase	Pyruvate Metabolism
MPC1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0041 (0-44) family	Pyruvate Metabolism
ACAA1A	acetyl-Coenzyme A acyltransferase 1A	Pyruvate Metabolism
EHHADH	enoyl-Coenzyme A, hydratase/3-hydroxyacyl Coenzyme A dehydrogenase	Pyruvate Metabolism
PCK2	Catalyzes the conversion of oxaloacetate (OAA) to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), the rate-limiting step in the metabolic pathway that produces glucose from lactate and other precursors derived from the citric acid cycle (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDP1	Catalyzes the dephosphorylation and concomitant reactivation of the alpha subunit of the E1 component of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
ACAA1B	acetyl-Coenzyme A acyltransferase 1B	Pyruvate Metabolism
ALDH7A1	catalytic activity:L-2-aminoadipate 6-semialdehyde + NAD(P)(+) + H(2)O = L-2-aminoadipate + NAD(P)Hsimilarity:Belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase familysubunit:Homotetramer	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDPR	Decreases the sensitivity of PDP1 to magnesium ions, and this inhibition is reversed by the polyamine spermine (By similarity)	Pyruvate Metabolism
PDP2	similarity:Belongs to the PP2C family	Pyruvate Metabolism
ME1	catalytic activity:(S)-malate + NADP(+) = pyruvate + CO(2) + NADPHcofactor:Divalent metal cations. Prefers magnesium or manganesesimilarity:Belongs to the malic enzymes familysubunit:Homotetramer	Pyruvate Metabolism
HOGA1	function:Probable lyasesequence caution:Translated as stopsimilarity:Belongs to the DHDPS family	Pyruvate Metabolism
ACSS1	Converts acetate to acetyl-CoA so that it can be used for oxidation through the tricarboxylic cycle to produce ATP and CO(2)	Pyruvate Metabolism
APEX1	Repairs oxidative DNA damages in vitro. May have a role in protection against cell lethality and suppression of mutations. Removes the blocking groups from the 3'-termini of the DNA strand breaks generated by ionizing radiations and bleomycin	Replication & Transcription
CDK5RAP1	Probable regulator of CDK5 activity. May inhibit CDK5 function via its interaction with CDK5R1 (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
DHX29	ATP-binding RNA helicase involved in translation initiation. Required for efficient initiation on mammalian mRNAs with structured 5'-UTRs by promoting efficient NTPase-dependent 48S complex formation. Specifically binds to the 40S ribosome near the mRNA entrance. Does not possess a processive helicase activity (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
FEN1	cofactor:Binds 2 magnesium ions per subunit. They probably participate in the reaction catalyzed by the enzyme. May bind an additional third magnesium ion after substrate bindingfunction:Endonuclease that cleaves the 5'-overhanging flap structure that is generated by displacement synthesis when DNA polymerase encounters the 5'-end of a downstream Okazaki fragment. It fails to cleave other DNA structures, including 3'-flaps and single stranded DNAPTM:Acetylated by EP300. Acetylation inhibits both endonuclease and exonuclease activity, and reduces the DNA-binding activity but does not affect interaction with PCNA or EP300similarity:Belongs to the XPG/RAD2 endonuclease family. FEN1 subfamilysubunit:Interacts with PCNA. The C-terminal domain binds EP300. Can bind simultaneously to both PCNA and EP300	Replication & Transcription
GK	catalytic activity:ATP + glycerol = ADP + sn-glycerol 3-phosphatefunction:Key enzyme in the regulation of glycerol uptake and metabolismpathway:Polyol metabolism; glycerol degradation via glycerol kinase pathway; sn-glycerol 3-phosphate from glycerol: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the FGGY kinase familysubcellular location:Bound to the mitochondrial surface or cytoplasmic	Replication & Transcription
LIG1	catalytic activity:ATP + (deoxyribonucleotide)(n) + (deoxyribonucleotide)(m) = AMP + diphosphate + (deoxyribonucleotide)(n+m)cofactor:Magnesiumfunction:DNA ligase that seals nicks in double-stranded DNA during DNA replication, DNA recombination and DNA repairsimilarity:Belongs to the ATP-dependent DNA ligase family	Replication & Transcription
LIG3	catalytic activity:ATP + (deoxyribonucleotide)(n) + (deoxyribonucleotide)(m) = AMP + diphosphate + (deoxyribonucleotide)(n+m)cofactor:Magnesiumdevelopmental stage:During male germ cell differentiation, expression of the beta isoform begins in the later stages of meiotic prophase and ends in the round spermatid stagefunction:The alpha isoform interacts with DNA-repair protein XRCC1 and can correct defective DNA strand-break repair and sister chromatid exchange following treatment with ionizing radiation and alkylating agents. The beta isoform does not interact with XRCC1 and may be specifically involved in the completion of homologous recombination events that occur during meiotic prophasesimilarity:Belongs to the ATP-dependent DNA ligase familysimilarity:Contains 1 BRCT domainsimilarity:Contains 1 PARP-type zinc fingertissue specificity:The alpha isoform is expressed in all tissues, while the beta isoform is expressed only in the testis	Replication & Transcription
MSH5	This gene encodes a member of the MutS family of proteins that play critical roles in DNA mismatch repair and meiotic homologous recombination processes. Mice lacking the encoded protein are viable but sterile, with severe defects in spermatogenesis in males and complete loss of ovarian structures in females. Mutations in a similar gene in humans have been shown to cause common variable immune deficiency (CVID) and immunoglobulin A deficiency. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.	Replication & Transcription
MTERF2	Involved in cell cycle regulation. May participate in the regulation of cell growth through the modulation of mitochondrial transcription. May act as a transcription termination factor (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
NFE2L2	similarity: Transcription activator that binds to antioxidant response (ARE) elements in the promoter regions of target genes. Important for the coordinated up-regulation of genes in response to oxidative stress. May be involved in the transcriptional activation of genes of the beta-globin cluster by mediating enhancer activity of hypersensitive site 2 of the beta-globin locus control region	Replication & Transcription
NSUN2	catalytic activity:S-adenosyl-L-methionine + tRNA = S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine + tRNA containing 5-methylcytosinedevelopmental stage:In G1, it is predominantly found in the nucleol. During S phase, it is present at its highest level and is distributed more uniformly throughout the nucleus (at protein level)function:RNA methyltransferase that methylates tRNAs, and possibly RNA polymerase III transcripts. Methylates cytosine to 5-methylcytosine (m5C) at position 34 of intron-containing tRNA(Leu)(CAA) precursors. Not able to modify tRNAs at positions 48 or 49 (By similarity). May act downstream of Myc to regulate epidermal cell growth and proliferationinduction:By Myc (at protein level)PTM:Phosphorylated at Ser-139 by Aurora-B/STK12 during mitosis, leading to abolish methyltransferase activity and the interaction with NPM1similarity:Belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily. RsmB/NOP family. TRM4 subfamilysubcellular location:Concentrated in the nucleolus during interphase and distributed in the perichromosome and cytoplasm during mitosissubunit:Interacts with NPM1 and NCL during interphase; interaction is disrupted following phosphorylation at Ser-139tissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed at low level. Up-regulated in tumors	Replication & Transcription
POLD4	Required for optimal DNA polymerase delta activity. May contribute to PCNA-dependent activity of DNA polymerase delta (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
RAD51	function:May participate in a common DNA damage response pathway associated with the activation of homologous recombination and double-strand break repair. Binds to single and double stranded DNA and exhibits DNA-dependent ATPase activity. Underwinds duplex DNA and forms helical nucleoprotein filamentsmiscellaneous:The nucleus of a mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells contains on average 4.7 x 10(5) moleculesPTM:Phosphorylated. Phosphorylation of Thr-309 by CHEK1/CHK1 may enhance association with chromatin at sites of DNA damage and promote DNA repair by homologous recombinationsimilarity:Belongs to the recA familysimilarity:Belongs to the recA family. RAD51 subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 HhH domainsubcellular location:Colocalizes with RAD51AP1 to multiple nuclear foci upon induction of DNA damagesubunit:Interacts with BRCA1, BRCA2 and either directly or indirectly with p53. Interacts with XRCC3, RAD54L and RAD54B. Part of a complex with RAD51C and RAD51B. Interacts with RAD51AP1 and RAD51AP2. Interacts with CHEK1/CHK1, and this may require prior phosphorylation of CHEK1 (By similarity). Interacts with the MND1-PSMC3IP heterodimer. Interacts with OBFC2Btissue specificity:Expressed in ovary and testis	Replication & Transcription
RMRP	similarity: This gene encodes the RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease, which cleaves mitochondrial RNA at a priming site of mitochondrial DNA replication. This RNA also interacts with the telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit to form a distinct ribonucleoprotein complex that has RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity and produces double-stranded RNAs that can be processed into small interfering RNA. Mutations in this gene are associated with cartilage-hair hypoplasia.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Replication & Transcription
RRM2B	Plays a pivotal role in cell survival by repairing damaged DNA in a p53/TP53-dependent manner. Supplies deoxyribonucleotides for DNA repair in cells arrested at G1 or G2. Contains an iron-tyrosyl free radical center required for catalysis. Forms an active ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) complex with RRM1 which is expressed both in resting and proliferating cells in response to DNA damage	Replication & Transcription
TERT	Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein enzyme essential for the replication of chromosome termini in most eukaryotes. It elongates telomeres. It is a reverse transcriptase that adds simple sequence repeats to chromosome ends by copying a template sequence within the RNA component of the enzyme	Replication & Transcription
TWNK	similarity: This gene encodes a hexameric DNA helicase which unwinds short stretches of double-stranded DNA in the 5' to 3' direction and, along with mitochondrial single-stranded DNA binding protein and mtDNA polymerase gamma, is thought to play a key role in mtDNA replication. The protein localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and mitochondrial nucleoids. Mutations in this gene cause infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (IOSCA) and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) and are also associated with several mitochondrial depletion syndromes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]	Replication & Transcription
YRDC	function:May regulate the activity of some transportersinduction:By ischemia/reperfusion and endotoxemiasimilarity:Belongs to the SUA5 familysimilarity:Contains 1 YrdC-like domainsubcellular location:Predominantly localized in the plasma membranesubunit:Interacts with RSC1A1tissue specificity:Widely expressed. Expressed at higher level in testis, secretory, and endocrine organs	Replication & Transcription
SUPV3L1	ATPase and DNA/RNA helicase able to unwind DNA/DNA, DNA/RNA and RNA/RNA duplexes in the 5'-3' direction. May protect cells from apoptosis (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
PHB	Prohibitin inhibits DNA synthesis. It has a role in regulating proliferation. As yet it is unclear if the protein or the mRNA exhibits this effect. May play a role in regulating mitochondrial respiration activity and in aging (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
POLRMT	DNA-dependent RNA polymerase catalyzes the transcription of DNA into RNA using the four ribonucleoside triphosphates as substrates (By similarity)DNA-dependent RNA polymerase catalyzes the transcription of DNA into RNA using the four ribonucleoside triphosphates as substrates	Replication & Transcription
POLDIP2	similarity:Contains 1 apaG domainsubunit:Interacts with PCNA and POLD2	Replication & Transcription
SSBP1	This protein binds preferentially and cooperatively to ss-DNA. Probably involved in mitochondrial DNA replication (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
MTERFD3	MTERF domain containing 3	Replication & Transcription
PEO1	progressive external ophthalmoplegia 1 (human)	Replication & Transcription
TEFM	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0629 family	Replication & Transcription
ENDOG	Cleaves DNA at double-stranded (DG)n.(DC)n and at single-stranded (DC)n tracts. In addition to deoxyribonuclease activities, also has ribonuclease (RNase) and RNase H activities. Capable of generating the RNA primers required by DNA polymerase gamma to initiate replication of mitochondrial DNA (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
TFAM	The mitochondrial isoform is involved in mitochondrial transcription regulation. Required for accurate and efficient promoter recognition by the mitochondrial RNA polymerase. Activates transcription by binding immediately upstream of transcriptional start sites. Is able to unwind and bend DNA. The testis-specific isoform may also function as a transcriptional activator or may have a structural role in the compaction of nuclear DNA during spermatogenesis	Replication & Transcription
GK2	catalytic activity:ATP + glycerol = ADP + sn-glycerol 3-phosphatefunction:Key enzyme in the regulation of glycerol uptake and metabolismpathway:Polyol metabolism; glycerol degradation via glycerol kinase pathway; sn-glycerol 3-phosphate from glycerol: step 1/1similarity:Belongs to the FGGY kinase familysubcellular location:In sperm the majority of the enzyme is bound to mitochondria	Replication & Transcription
POLG	Involved in the replication of mitochondrial DNA	Replication & Transcription
EXOG	Endo/exonuclease with nicking activity towards supercoiled DNA, a preference for single stranded DNA and 5'-3' exonuclease activity (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
NIF3L1	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0135 (NIF3) familysubunit:Homodimer (By similarity). Interacts with COPS2 and THOC7tissue specificity:Ubiquitous	Replication & Transcription
NT5M	cofactor:Magnesiumfunction:Dephosphorylates specifically the 5' and 2'(3')-phosphates of uracil and thymine deoxyribonucleotides, and so protects mitochondrial DNA replication from excess dTTP. Has only marginal activity towards dIMP and dGMPsimilarity:Belongs to the 5'(3')-deoxyribonucleotidase familysubunit:Homodimer	Replication & Transcription
DGUOK	Required for the phosphorylation of several deoxyribonucleosides and certain nucleoside analogs widely employed as antiviral and chemotherapeutic agents (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
UNG	Excises uracil residues from the DNA which can arise as a result of misincorporation of dUMP residues by DNA polymerase or due to deamination of cytosine (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
CMPK2	May participate in dUTP and dCTP synthesis in mitochondria. Is able to phosphorylate dUMP, dCMP, CMP, UMP and monophosphates of the pyrimidine nucleoside analogs ddC, dFdC, araC, BVDU and FdUrd with ATP as phosphate donor (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
MTERFD2	MTERF domain containing 2	Replication & Transcription
TOP1MT	similarity:Belongs to the eukaryotic type I topoisomerase family	Replication & Transcription
TK2	catalytic activity:ATP + thymidine = ADP + thymidine 5'-phosphatefunction:Deoxyribonucleoside kinase that phosphorylates thymidine, deoxycytidine, and deoxyuridine. Also phosphorylates anti-viral and anti-cancer nucleoside analogssimilarity:Belongs to the DCK/DGK familysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Found in most tissues; highly expressed in liver	Replication & Transcription
DHX30	PTM:Isoform 3 is phosphorylated on Ser-15similarity:Belongs to the DEAD box helicase family. DEAH subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 DRBM (double-stranded RNA-binding) domainsimilarity:Contains 1 helicase ATP-binding domainsimilarity:Contains 1 helicase C-terminal domainsubunit:Identified in a complex with TFAM and SSBP1	Replication & Transcription
TFB1M	S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyltransferase which specifically dimethylates mitochondrial 12S rRNA at the conserved stem loop. Also required for basal transcription of mitochondrial DNA, probably via its interaction with POLRMT and TFAM. Stimulates transcription independently of the methyltransferase activity (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
RNASEH1	Endonuclease that specifically degrades the RNA of RNA- DNA hybrids (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
MTERFD1	MTERF domain containing 1	REplication & Transcription
TOP3A	Reduces the number of supercoils in a highly negatively supercoiled DNA. Essential component of the RMI complex, a complex that plays an important role in the processing of homologous recombination intermediates to limit DNA crossover formation in cells (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
NTHL1	catalytic activity:The C-O-P bond 3' to the apurinic or apyrimidinic site in DNA is broken by a beta-elimination reaction, leaving a 3'-terminal unsaturated sugar and a product with a terminal 5'-phosphatecofactor:Binds 1 4Fe-4S cluster. The cluster is not important for the catalytic activity, but which is probably involved in the proper positioning of the enzyme along the DNA strandfunction:Has both an apurinic and/or apyrimidinic endonuclease activity and a DNA N-glycosylase activity. Incises damaged DNA at cytosines, thymines and guanines. Acts on a damaged strand, 5' from the damaged site. Required for the repair of both oxidative DNA damage and spontaneous mutagenic lesionssimilarity:Belongs to the nth/mutY familytissue specificity:Widely expressed	Replication & Transcription
MTERF1B	paralog to Mterf1a: Transcription termination factor. Binds to a 28 bp region within the tRNA(Leu(uur)) gene at a position immediately adjacent to and downstream of the 16S rRNA gene, this region comprises a tridecamer sequence critical for directing accurate termination. Probably requires one or more components for termination activity (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
TFB2M	S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyltransferase which specifically dimethylates mitochondrial 12S rRNA at the conserved stem loop. Also required for basal transcription of mitochondrial DNA, probably via its interaction with POLRMT and TFAM. Stimulates transcription independently of the methyltransferase activity	Replication & Transcription
MTERF1A	Transcription termination factor. Binds to a 28 bp region within the tRNA(Leu(uur)) gene at a position immediately adjacent to and downstream of the 16S rRNA gene, this region comprises a tridecamer sequence critical for directing accurate termination. Probably requires one or more components for termination activity (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
MUTYH	cofactor:Binds 1 4Fe-4S cluster. The cluster is not important for the catalytic activity, but which is probably involved in the proper positioning of the enzyme along the DNA strandfunction:Involved in oxidative DNA damage repair. Initiates repair of A*oxoG to C*G by removing the inappropriately paired adenine base from the DNA backbone. Possesses both adenine and 2-OH-A DNA glycosylase activitiessimilarity:Belongs to the nth/mutY familysimilarity:Contains 1 nudix hydrolase domain	Replication & Transcription
MGME1	similarity: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein necessary for the maintenance of mitochondrial genome synthesis. The encoded protein is a RecB-type exonuclease and primarily cleaves single-stranded DNA. Defects in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome-11. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015],	Replication & Transcription
APEX2	May participate in both nuclear and mitochondrial post- replicative base excision repair (BER). In the nucleus functions in the PCNA-dependent BER pathway	Replication & Transcription
PIF1	disruption phenotype:Mice do not exhibit any change in telomere length in thymocytes or plenocytes nor significant change in chromosome gain or rearrangementsfunction:DNA-dependent ATPase and DNA helicase inhibiting telomerase activity by unwinding DNA/RNA duplex formed by telomerase RNA and telomeric DNA in a 5' to 3' polarity. Negatively regulates telomere length and such inhibition requires its ATPase activity. Tightly cell cycle-regulated and expressed in late S/G2 phasesimilarity:Belongs to the helicase familysubunit:Interacts with telomerase	Replication & Transcription
POLG2	Mitochondrial polymerase processivity subunit. Stimulates the polymerase and exonuclease activities, and increases the processivity of the enzyme. Binds to ss-DNA	Replication & Transcription
ALKBH1	similarity: This gene encodes a homolog to the E. coli alkB gene product. The E. coli alkB protein is part of the adaptive response mechanism of DNA alkylation damage repair. It is involved in damage reversal by oxidative demethylation of 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Replication & Transcription
DNA2	May function in chromosomal DNA replication (By similarity)	Replication & Transcription
MGST3	microsomal glutathione S-transferase 3	ROS Defense
GCLC	catalytic activity:ATP + L-glutamate + L-cysteine = ADP + phosphate + gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteineenzyme regulation:Feedback inhibition by glutathionepathway:Sulfur metabolism; glutathione biosynthesis; glutathione from L-cysteine and L-glutamate: step 1/2similarity:Belongs to the glutamate--cysteine ligase type 3 familysubunit:Heterodimer of a catalytic heavy chain and a regulatory light chain	ROS Defense
GCLM	pathway:Sulfur metabolism; glutathione biosynthesis; glutathione from L-cysteine and L-glutamate: step 1/2similarity:Belongs to the aldo/keto reductase family. Glutamate--cysteine ligase light chain subfamilysubunit:Heterodimer of a catalytic heavy chain and a regulatory light chain	ROS Defense
GSS	catalytic activity:ATP + gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteine + glycine = ADP + phosphate + glutathionepathway:Sulfur metabolism; glutathione biosynthesis; glutathione from L-cysteine and L-glutamate: step 2/2similarity:Belongs to the eukaryotic GSH synthase familysubunit:Homodimer	ROS Defense
GSTA1	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles	ROS Defense
GSTA2	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles	ROS Defense
GSTP1	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles. Can metabolize 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzeneConjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles. Cannot metabolize 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene	ROS Defense
GSTP2	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles. Can metabolize 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzeneConjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles. Cannot metabolize 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene	ROS Defense
MSRB3	Catalyzes the reduction of free and protein-bound methionine sulfoxide to methionine (By similarity)	ROS Defense
NGB	This gene encodes an oxygen-binding protein that is distantly related to members of the globin gene family. It is highly conserved among other vertebrates. It is expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system where it may be involved in increasing oxygen availability and providing protection under hypoxic/ischemic conditions.	ROS Defense
PRDX1	Involved in redox regulation of the cell. Reduces peroxides with reducing equivalents provided through the thioredoxin system but not from glutaredoxin. May play an important role in eliminating peroxides generated during metabolism. Might participate in the signaling cascades of growth factors and tumor necrosis factor-alpha by regulating the intracellular concentrations of H(2)O(2)	ROS Defense
TLDC2	Involved in ROS defense by similarity to Yeast OXR1	ROS Defense
TXN1	ADF augments the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor TAC (IL2R/P55)Participates in various redox reactions through the reversible oxidation of its active center dithiol to a disulfide and catalyzes dithiol-disulfide exchange reactions (By similarity). Plays a role in the reversible S-nitrosylation of cysteine residues in target proteins, and thereby contributes to the response to intracellular nitric oxide. Nitrosylates the active site Cys of CASP3 in response to nitric oxide (NO), and thereby inhibits caspase-3 activity (By similarity)	ROS Defense
PRDX3	Involved in redox regulation of the cell. Protects radical-sensitive enzymes from oxidative damage by a radical- generating system	ROS Defense
SOD2	Destroys radicals which are normally produced within the cells and which are toxic to biological systems	ROS Defense
TXN2	Has an anti-apoptotic function and plays an important role in the regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential (By similarity). Possesses a dithiol-reducing activity	ROS Defense
MSRB2	Catalyzes the reduction of free and protein-bound methionine sulfoxide to methionine	ROS Defense
TXNRD2	Maintains thioredoxin in a reduced state. Implicated in the defenses against oxidative stress. May play a role in redox- regulated cell signaling	ROS Defense
MPV17	caution:Was initially thought to be a peroxisomal protein (PubMed:7957077). However, it was later shown in human that it is a mitochondrial protein (PubMed:16582907 and PubMed:16582910)disruption phenotype:Mice lack expression of this protein resulting in the development of adult onset nephrotic syndrome and chronic renal failure. They also develop severe morphological degeneration of the inner ear. In the inner ear, mice lacking Mpv17 display degenerative changes of the cochlear structures already at the age of 2 months. The degenerative changes are patchy arranged throughout the entire length of the cochlea and involved the organ of Corti as well as the stria vascularis epithelia with alterations of the basement membrane of the capillariesfunction:Involved in mitochondria homeostasis. May be involved in the metabolism of reactive oxygen species and control of oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) maintenancefunction:Required for RNA polymerase III-mediated transcription. Component of TFIIIC that initiates transcription complex assembly on tRNA and is required for transcription of 5S rRNA and other stable nuclear and cytoplasmic RNAs. May play a direct role in stabilizing interactions of TFIIIC2 with TFIIIC1similarity:Belongs to the peroxisomal membrane protein PXMP2/4 familysimilarity:Contains 4 WD repeatssubunit:Part of the TFIIIC subcomplex TFIIIC2, consisting of six subunits, GTF3C1, GTF3C2, GTF3C3, GTF3C4, GTF3C5 and GTF3C6tissue specificity:High levels in heart, kidney, and brain, intermediate levels in testis, and low levels in liver and spleen	ROS Defense
GSTK1	glutathione S-transferase kappa 1	ROS Defense
GSR	Maintains high levels of reduced glutathione in the cytosol	ROS Defense
SELO	selenoprotein O	ROS Defense
MSRA	Has an important function as a repair enzyme for proteins that have been inactivated by oxidation. Catalyzes the reversible oxidation-reduction of methionine sulfoxide in proteins to methionine (By similarity)	ROS Defense
GLRX2	Glutathione-dependent oxidoreductase that facilitates the maintenance of mitochondrial redox homeostasis upon induction of apoptosis by oxidative stress. Involved in response to hydrogen peroxide and regulation of apoptosis caused by oxidative stress. Acts as a very efficient catalyst of monothiol reactions because of its high affinity for protein glutathione-mixed disulfides. Can receive electrons not only from glutathione (GSH), but also from thioredoxin reductase supporting both monothiol and dithiol reactions. Efficiently catalyzes both glutathionylation and deglutathionylation of mitochondrial complex I, which in turn regulates the superoxide production by the complex. Overexpression decreases the susceptibility to apoptosis and prevents loss of cardiolipin and cytochrome c release	ROS Defense
PRDX5	Reduces hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides with reducing equivalents provided through the thioredoxin system. Involved in intracellular redox signaling	ROS Defense
ROMO1	Induces production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) which are necessary for cell proliferation. May play a role in inducing oxidative DNA damage and replicative senescence (By similarity)	ROS Defense
GPX1	Protects the hemoglobin in erythrocytes from oxidative breakdown	ROS Defense
MPV17L	Isoform 1 and isoform 3 participate in reactive oxygen species metablism by up- or down-regulation of the genes of antioxidant enzymes	ROS Defense
CAT	Occurs in almost all aerobically respiring organisms and serves to protect cells from the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide (By similarity)Occurs in almost all aerobically respiring organisms and serves to protect cells from the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide. Promotes growth of cells	ROS Defense
NUDT2	Asymmetrically hydrolyzes Ap4A to yield AMP and ATP. Plays a major role in maintaining homeostasis (By similarity)	ROS Defense
GSTO1	glutathione S-transferase omega 1	ROS Defense
MGST1	Conjugation of reduced glutathione to a wide number of exogenous and endogenous hydrophobic electrophiles (By similarity)	ROS Defense
TXNRD1	catalytic activity:Thioredoxin + NADP(+) = thioredoxin disulfide + NADPHcofactor:Binds 1 FAD per subunitmiscellaneous:The active site is a redox-active disulfide bond. The selenocysteine residue is also essential for catalytic activitysequence caution:Translated as Secsimilarity:Belongs to the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase familysubunit:Homodimer	ROS Defense
PRDX6	peroxiredoxin 6	ROS Defense
SOD1	similarity: Destroys radicals which are normally produced within the cells and which are toxic to biological systems	ROS Defense
PRDX6B	peroxiredoxin 6B	ROS Defense
OXR1	May be involved in protection from oxidative damage	ROS Defense
OGG1	DNA repair enzyme that incises DNA at 8-oxoG residues. Excises 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine and 2,6-diamino-4-hydroxy-5-N- methylformamidopyrimidine (FAPY) from damaged DNA. Has a beta- lyase activity that nicks DNA 3' to the lesion	ROS Defense
PRDX2	peroxiredoxin 2	ROS Defense
PARK7	function:Acts as a positive regulator of androgen receptor-dependent transcription. May function as a redox-sensitive chaperone and as a sensor for oxidative stress. Prevents aggregation of SNCA. Protects neurons against oxidative stress and cell death. Plays a role in fertilization. Has no proteolytic activity. Has cell-growth promoting activity and transforming activityPTM:Sumoylated on Lys-130 by pias2 or pias4; which is essential for cell-growth promoting activity and transforming activitysimilarity:Belongs to the peptidase C56 familysubcellular location:Associated with mitochondria in some cells, particularly after oxidative stresssubunit:Homodimer. Binds EFCAB6/DJBP and PIAS2. Part of a ternary complex containing PARK7, EFCAB6/DJBP and AR	ROS Defense
PRDX4	peroxiredoxin 4	ROS Defense
GPX4	Could play a major role in protecting mammals from the toxicity of ingested lipid hydroperoxides. Essential for embryonic development. Protects from radiation and oxidative damage. Stabilizes the condensed chromatin in sperm nuclei and is necessary for male fertilityMay bind RNA and play a role in mRNA processing (By similarity)Protects cells against membrane lipid peroxidation and cell death. Isoform mitochondrial is required for normal sperm development and male fertility. Could play a major role in protecting mammals from the toxicity of ingested lipid hydroperoxides. Essential for embryonic development. Protects from radiation and oxidative damage	ROS Defense
ARNT	This gene encodes a protein containing a basic helix-loop-helix domain and two characteristic PAS domains along with a PAC domain. The encoded protein binds to ligand-bound aryl hydrocarbon receptor and aids in the movement of this complex to the nucleus, where it promotes the expression of genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism. This protein is also a co-factor for transcriptional regulation by hypoxia-inducible factor 1. Chromosomal translocation of this locus with the ETV6 (ets variant 6) gene on chromosome 12 have been described in leukemias. 	Transcription (nuclear)
ATF4	This gene encodes a transcription factor that was originally identified as a widely expressed mammalian DNA binding protein that could bind a tax-responsive enhancer element in the LTR of HTLV-1. The encoded protein was also isolated and characterized as the cAMP-response element binding protein 2 (CREB-2). The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of DNA-binding proteins that includes the AP-1 family of transcription factors, cAMP-response element binding proteins (CREBs) and CREB-like proteins. These transcription factors share a leucine zipper region that is involved in protein-protein interactions, located C-terminal to a stretch of basic amino acids that functions as a DNA binding domain. Two alternative transcripts encoding the same protein have been described. 	Transcription (nuclear)
CREB1	similarity: This protein binds the cAMP response element (CRE), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. CREB stimulates transcription on binding to the CRE. Transciption activation is enhanced by the TORC coactivators which act independently of Ser-133 phosphorylation. Implicated in synchronization of circadian rhythmicity	Transcription (nuclear)
E2F1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcription factors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycle and action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transforming proteins of small DNA tumor viruses. The E2F proteins contain several evolutionally conserved domains found in most members of the family. These domains include a DNA binding domain, a dimerization domain which determines interaction with the differentiation regulated transcription factor proteins (DP), a transactivation domain enriched in acidic amino acids, and a tumor suppressor protein association domain which is embedded within the transactivation domain. This protein and another 2 members, E2F2 and E2F3, have an additional cyclin binding domain. This protein binds preferentially to retinoblastoma protein pRB in a cell-cycle dependent manner. It can mediate both cell proliferation and p53-dependent/independent apoptosis. 	Transcription (nuclear)
ESRRA	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor that is most closely related to the estrogen receptor. This protein acts as a site-specific transcription factor and interacts with members of the PGC-1 family of transcription cofactors to regulate the expression of most genes involved in cellular energy production as well as in the process of mitochondrial biogenesis. 	Transcription (nuclear)
FOXO3	This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. This gene likely functions as a trigger for apoptosis through expression of genes necessary for cell death. Translocation of this gene with the MLL gene is associated with secondary acute leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed.	Transcription (nuclear)
GABPA	This gene encodes one of three GA-binding protein transcription factor subunits which functions as a DNA-binding subunit. Since this subunit shares identity with a subunit encoding the nuclear respiratory factor 2 gene, it is likely involved in activation of cytochrome oxidase expression and nuclear control of mitochondrial function. This subunit also shares identity with a subunit constituting the transcription factor E4TF1, responsible for expression of the adenovirus E4 gene. Because of its chromosomal localization and ability to form heterodimers with other polypeptides, this gene may play a role in the Down Syndrome phenotype.	Transcription (nuclear)
HIF1A	This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subunit. HIF-1 functions as a master regulator of cellular and systemic homeostatic response to hypoxia by activating transcription of many genes, including those involved in energy metabolism, angiogenesis, apoptosis, and other genes whose protein products increase oxygen delivery or facilitate metabolic adaptation to hypoxia. HIF-1 thus plays an essential role in embryonic vascularization, tumor angiogenesis and pathophysiology of ischemic disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. 	Transcription (nuclear)
JUN	This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17. It encodes a protein which is highly similar to the viral protein, and which interacts directly with specific target DNA sequences to regulate gene expression. This gene is intronless and is mapped to 1p32-p31, a chromosomal region involved in both translocations and deletions in human malignancies.	Transcription (nuclear)
MITF	The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that contains both basic helix-loop-helix and leucine zipper structural features. The encoded protein regulates melanocyte development and is responsible for pigment cell-specific transcription of the melanogenesis enzyme genes. Heterozygous mutations in the this gene cause auditory-pigmentary syndromes, such as Waardenburg syndrome type 2 and Tietz syndrome.	Transcription (nuclear)
MYC	The protein encoded by this gene is a multifunctional, nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation. It functions as a transcription factor that regulates transcription of specific target genes. Mutations, overexpression, rearrangement and translocation of this gene have been associated with a variety of hematopoietic tumors, leukemias and lymphomas, including Burkitt lymphoma, in human. There is evidence to show that alternative translation initiations from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site result in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini, in human and mouse. Under conditions of stress, such as high cell densities and methionine deprivation, there is a specific and dramatic increase in the synthesis of the non-AUG initiated protein, suggesting its importance in times of adversity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Transcription (nuclear)
NRF1	Transcription factor that activates the expression of the EIF2S1 (EIF2-alpha) gene. Links the transcriptional modulation of key metabolic genes to cellular growth and development. Implicated in the control of nuclear genes required for respiration, heme biosynthesis, and mitochondrial DNA transcription and replication (By similarity)	Transcription (nuclear)
PPARA	Peroxisome proliferators include hypolipidemic drugs, herbicides, leukotriene antagonists, and plasticizers; this term arises because they induce an increase in the size and number of peroxisomes. Peroxisomes are subcellular organelles found in plants and animals that contain enzymes for respiration and for cholesterol and lipid metabolism. The action of peroxisome proliferators is thought to be mediated via specific receptors, called PPARs, which belong to the steroid hormone receptor superfamily. PPARs affect the expression of target genes involved in cell proliferation, cell differentiation and in immune and inflammation responses. Three closely related subtypes (alpha, beta/delta, and gamma) have been identified. This gene encodes the subtype PPAR-alpha, which is a nuclear transcription factor. 	Transcription (nuclear)
PPARG	This gene encodes a nuclear receptor protein belonging to the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (Ppar) family. The encoded protein is a ligand-activated transcription factor that is involved in the regulation of adipocyte differentiation and glucose homeostasis. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with retinoid X receptors and binds to DNA motifs termed peroxisome proliferator response elements to either activate or inhibit gene expression. Mice lacking the encoded protein die at an embryonic stage due to severe defects in placental vascularization. When the embryos lacking this gene are supplemented with healthy placentas, the mutants survive to term, but succumb to lipodystrophy and multiple hemorrhages. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. 	Transcription (nuclear)
PPARGC1A	similarity: Transcriptional coactivator for steroid receptors and nuclear receptors. Greatly increases the transcriptional activity of PPARG and thyroid hormone receptor on the uncoupling protein promoter. Can regulate key mitochondrial genes that contribute to the program of adaptive thermogenesis (By similarity)	Transcription (nuclear)
PPARGC1B	The protein encoded by this gene stimulates the activity of several transcription factors and nuclear receptors, including estrogen receptor alpha, nuclear respiratory factor 1, and glucocorticoid receptor. The encoded protein may be involved in fat oxidation, non-oxidative glucose metabolism, and the regulation of energy expenditure. This protein is downregulated in prediabetic and type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. Certain allelic variations in this gene increase the risk of the development of obesity. 	Transcription (nuclear)
PPRC1	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to PPAR-gamma coactivator 1 (PPARGC1/PGC-1), a protein that can activate mitochondrial biogenesis in part through a direct interaction with nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF1). This protein has been shown to interact with NRF1. It is thought to be a functional relative of PPAR-gamma coactivator 1 that activates mitochondrial biogenesis through NRF1 in response to proliferative signals. 	Transcription (nuclear)
RELA	NF-kappa-B is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in several biological processes. It is held in the cytoplasm in an inactive state by specific inhibitors. Upon degradation of the inhibitor, NF-kappa-B moves to the nucleus and activates transcription of specific genes. NF-kappa-B is composed of NFKB1 or NFKB2 bound to either REL, RELA, or RELB. The most abundant form of NF-kappa-B is NFKB1 complexed with the product of this gene, RELA. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.	Transcription (nuclear)
SP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to GC-rich motifs of many promoters. The encoded protein is involved in many cellular processes, including cell differentiation, cell growth, apoptosis, immune responses, response to DNA damage, and chromatin remodeling. Post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, acetylation, glycosylation, and proteolytic processing significantly affect the activity of this protein, which can be an activator or a repressor. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. 	Transcription (nuclear)
TFE3	This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix domain-containing transcription factor that binds MUE3-type E-box sequences in the promoter of genes. The encoded protein promotes the expression of genes downstream of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling. This gene may be involved in chromosomal translocations in renal cell carcinomas and other cancers, resulting in the production of fusion proteins. Translocation partners include PRCC (papillary renal cell carcinoma), NONO (non-POU domain containing, octamer-binding), and ASPSCR1 (alveolar soft part sarcoma chromosome region, candidate 1), among other genes (by similarity).	Transcription (nuclear)
TFEB	TFEB (Transcription Factor EB) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TFEB include Renal Cell Carcinoma, Xp11-Associated and Microphthalmia. Among its related pathways are PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and therapeutic opportunities and Apoptosis and Autophagy. Gene Ontology (GO) annotations related to this gene include DNA-binding transcription factor activity and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is MITF.	Transcription (nuclear)
TRP53	This gene encodes tumor protein p53, which responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate target genes that induce cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism. p53 protein is expressed at low level in normal cells and at a high level in a variety of transformed cell lines, where it's believed to contribute to transformation and malignancy. p53 is a DNA-binding protein containing transcription activation, DNA-binding, and oligomerization domains. It is postulated to bind to a p53-binding site and activate expression of downstream genes that inhibit growth and/or invasion, and thus function as a tumor suppressor. Mice deficient for this gene are developmentally normal but are susceptible to spontaneous tumors. Evidence to date shows that this gene contains one promoter, in contrast to alternative promoters of the human gene, and transcribes a few of splice variants which encode different isoforms, although the biological validity or the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined.	Transcription (nuclear)
YAP1	This gene encodes a protein which binds to the SH3 domain of the Yes proto-oncogene product, a tyrosine kinase. This protein contains a WW domain, consisting of four conserved aromatic amino acids including two tryptophan residues. This conserved WW domain is found in various structural, regulatory and signaling molecules in various species, and may play a role in protein-protein interaction. Following cellular damage, phosphorylation of this encoded protein may suppress apoptosis. This protein may be involved in malignant transformation in cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.	Transcription (nuclear)
YY1	YY1 is a ubiquitously distributed transcription factor belonging to the GLI-Kruppel class of zinc finger proteins. The protein is involved in repressing and activating a diverse number of promoters. YY1 may direct histone deacetylases and histone acetyltransferases to a promoter in order to activate or repress the promoter, thus implicating histone modification in the function of YY1. 	Transcription (nuclear)
TRUB2	May be responsible for synthesis of pseudouridine from uracil in transfer RNAs (By similarity)	Translation
EIF2AK3	catalytic activity:ATP + a protein = ADP + a phosphoproteindomain:The lumenal domain senses perturbations in protein folding in the ER, probably through reversible interaction with HSPA5/BIPenzyme regulation:Perturbation in protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) promotes reversible dissociation from HSPA5/BIP and oligomerization, resulting in transautophosphorylation and kinase activity inductionfunction:Phosphorylates the alpha subunit of eukaryotic translation-initiation factor 2 (EIF2), leading to its inactivation and thus to a rapid reduction of translational initiation and repression of global protein synthesis. Serves as a critical effector of unfolded protein response (UPR)-induced G1 growth arrest due to the loss of cyclin D1induction:By ER stressPTM:AutophosphorylatedPTM:N-glycosylatedsimilarity:Belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. Ser/Thr protein kinase family. GCN2 subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 protein kinase domainsubunit:Forms dimers with HSPA5/BIP in resting cells. Oligomerizes in ER-stressed cells. Interacts with DNAJC3tissue specificity:Ubiquitous	Translation
GATB	catalytic activity:ATP + L-glutamyl-tRNA(Gln) + L-glutamine = ADP + phosphate + L-glutaminyl-tRNA(Gln) + L-glutamatefunction:Furnishes a means for formation of correctly charged Gln-tRNA(Gln) through the transamidation of misacylated Glu-tRNA(Gln) in the mitochondria. The reaction takes place in the presence of glutamine and ATP through an activated gamma-phospho-Glu-tRNA(Gln) similarity:Belongs to the gatB/gatE family. GatB subfamily	Translation
GLYATL3	similarity: Acyltransferase which transfers the acyl group to the N- terminus of glycine (By similarity)	Translation
MRM2	similarity: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S-adenosylmethionine-binding protein family. It is a nucleolar protein and it may be involved in the processing and modification of rRNA. This gene has been suggested to be involved in cell cycle control and DNA repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation
MRM3	Probable RNA methyltransferase (By similarity)	Translation
MRPL57	miscellaneous:Identified only in the intact 55S subunit. It is unknown whether it belongs to the 28S or to the 39S subunit. May localize at the subunit interface and dissociate from the 55S mitoribosome during subunit separation	Translation
MRPL58	similarity:Belongs to the prokaryotic/mitochondrial release factor family	Translation
MTERF3	similarity:Belongs to the mTERF family	Translation
MTERF4	similarity:Belongs to the mTERF family	Translation
PIN4	catalytic activity:Peptidylproline (omega=180) = peptidylproline (omega=0)similarity:Belongs to the ppiC/parvulin rotamase family. PIN4 subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 PpiC domain	Translation
QARS	similarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
RIDA	Catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of enamine/imine intermediates that form during the course of normal metabolism. May facilitate the release of ammonia from these potentially toxic reactive metabolites, reducing their impact on cellular components. It may act on enamine/imine intermediates formed by several types of pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent dehydratases including L-threonine dehydratase.	Translation
RNASEL	Endoribonuclease, mediator of interferon action, which play a role in mediating resistance to virus infection and apoptosis. Might play a central role in the regulation of mRNA turnover	Translation
RPS19	Required for pre-rRNA processing and maturation of 40S ribosomal subunits (By similarity)	Translation
SBDS	May be involved in the biogenesis of the 60S ribosomal subunit and translational activation of ribosomes. May trigger the GTP-dependent release of eif6 from 60S pre-ribosomes in the cytoplasm, thereby activating ribosomes for translation competence by allowing 80S ribosome assembly and facilitating eif6 recycling to the nucleus, where it is required for 60S rRNA processing and nuclear export (By similarity)	Translation
TRMT5	Specifically methylates guanosine-37 in various tRNAs. Not dependent on the nature of the nucleoside 5' of the target nucleoside (By similarity)	Translation
RPL35A	ribosomal protein L35A	Translation
MRPL12	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L12P family	Translation
MRPS35	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
LRPPRC	May play a role in RNA metabolism in both nuclei and mitochondria. In the nucleus binds to HNRPA1-associated poly(A) mRNAs and is part of nmRNP complexes at late stages of mRNA maturation which are possibly associated with nuclear mRNA export. May bind mature mRNA in the nucleus outer membrane. In mitochondria binds to poly(A) mRNA. Plays a role in translation or stability of mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase (COX) subunits. May be involved in transcription regulation. Cooperates with PPARGC1A to regulate certain mitochondrially encoded genes and gluconeogenic genes and may regulate docking of PPARGC1A to transcription factors. Seems to be involved in the transcription regulation of the multidrug-related genes MDR1 and MVP. Part of a nuclear factor that binds to the invMED1 element of MDR1 and MVP gene promoters (By similarity). Binds single-stranded DNA	Translation
MRPL53	Component of the large subunit of mitochondrial ribosome	Translation
GFM1	similarity: Eukaryotes contain two protein translational systems, one in the cytoplasm and one in the mitochondria. Mitochondrial translation is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial function and mutations in this system lead to a breakdown in the respiratory chain-oxidative phosphorylation system and to impaired maintenance of mitochondrial DNA. This gene encodes one of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors. Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in different disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008],	Translation
MRPL34	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L34P family	Translation
MRPS15	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S15P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPS23	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPS27	similarity:Contains 2 PPR (pentatricopeptide) repeatssubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
LARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-leucine + tRNA(Leu) = AMP + diphosphate + L-leucyl-tRNA(Leu)similarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
MRPL46	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L46 family	Translation
IARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-isoleucine + tRNA(Ile) = AMP + diphosphate + L-isoleucyl-tRNA(Ile)similarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
MRPL43	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S25/L51 familytissue specificity:Ubiquitous with the highest levels in the liver, heart and kidneys. The skeletal muscle, brain and testis showed lower but detectable expression. Expression is coregulated with PEO1	Translation
MRPL28	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L28P family	Translation
MTIF2	One of the essential components for the initiation of protein synthesis. Protects formylmethionyl-tRNA from spontaneous hydrolysis and promotes its binding to the 30S ribosomal subunits. Also involved in the hydrolysis of GTP during the formation of the 70S ribosomal complex (By similarity)	Translation
MRRF	Responsible for the release of ribosomes from messenger RNA at the termination of protein biosynthesis. May increase the efficiency of translation by recycling ribosomes from one round of translation to another (By similarity)	Translation
MRPL2	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L2P family	Translation
GFM2	similarity: Eukaryotes contain two protein translational systems, one in the cytoplasm and one in the mitochondria. Mitochondrial translation is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial function and mutations in this system lead to a breakdown in the respiratory chain-oxidative phosphorylation system and to impaired maintenance of mitochondrial DNA. This gene encodes one of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors, which is a GTPase that plays a role at the termination of mitochondrial translation by mediating the disassembly of ribosomes from messenger RNA . Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013],	Translation
MRPL1	sequence caution:Translation N-terminally extendedsimilarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L1P family	Translation
MRPS2	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S2P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL44	Component of the 39S subunit of mitochondrial ribosome (By similarity)	Translation
GUF1	similarity:Belongs to the GTP-binding elongation factor family. LepA subfamily	Translation
MRPL10	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L10P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome large subunit (39S) which comprises a 16S rRNA and about 50 distinct proteins	Translation
MTO1	Involved in the 5-carboxymethylaminomethyl modification (mnm(5)s(2)U34) of the wobble uridine base in mitochondrial tRNAs	Translation
MRPL40	Component of the large subunit of mitochondrial ribosome	Translation
MRM1	Probably methylates the ribose of guanosine G-2270 in the peptidyl transferase center of the mitochondrial large ribosomal RNA (21S) (By similarity)	Translation
MRPS18A	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MALSU1	similarity:Belongs to the Iojap family	Translation
YARS2	Catalyzes the attachment of tyrosine to tRNA(Tyr) in a two-step reaction: tyrosine is first activated by ATP to form Tyr- AMP and then transferred to the acceptor end of tRNA(Tyr) (By similarity)	Translation
MRPS28	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL3	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L3P family	Translation
MRPL4	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L4P family	Translation
MRPS14	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S14P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL33	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L33P family	Translation
MRPS12	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S12P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL24	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L24P familysimilarity:Contains 1 KOW domain	Translation
MRPL13	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L13P family	Translation
MRPL17	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L17P family	Translation
DAP3	function:Involved in mediating interferon-gamma-induced cell deathsubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL15	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L15P family	Translation
MRPL21	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L21P family	Translation
MRPL55	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome large subunit (39S) which comprises a 16S rRNA and about 50 distinct proteins	Translation
TACO1	similarity: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that function as a translational activator of mitochondrially-encoded cytochrome c oxidase 1. Mutations in this gene are associated with Leigh syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010],	Translation
MRPL11	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L11P family	Translation
ERAL1	similarity:Belongs to the era/mnmE GTP-binding protein family. Era subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 KH type-2 domain	Translation
TSFM	Associates with the EF-Tu.GDP complex and induces the exchange of GDP to GTP. It remains bound to the aminoacyl-tRNA.EF- Tu.GTP complex up to the GTP hydrolysis stage on the ribosome (By similarity)	Translation
MRPS7	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S7P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL49	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L49em family	Translation
MRPS9	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S9P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL19	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L19P family	Translation
MRPL16	Component of the large subunit of mitochondrial ribosome	Translation
MRPL30	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L30P family	Translation
MARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-methionine + tRNA(Met) = AMP + diphosphate + L-methionyl-tRNA(Met)similarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
GATC	similarity:Belongs to the gatC family	Translation
MRPS18C	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL35	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L35P family	Translation
MRPL20	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L20P family	Translation
MRPL54	Component of the large subunit of mitochondrial ribosome	Translation
MRPS5	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S5P familysimilarity:Contains 1 S5 DRBM domainsubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPS22	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
WARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-tryptophan + tRNA(Trp) = AMP + diphosphate + L-tryptophyl-tRNA(Trp)similarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
MRPS34	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPS21	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S21P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPS10	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S10P family	Translation
MRPL22	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L22P family	Translation
SLIRP	RNA-binding protein that acts as a nuclear receptor corepressor. Probably acts by binding the SRA RNA, and repressing the SRA-mediated nuclear receptor coactivation. Binds the STR7 loop of SRA RNA. Also able to repress glucocorticoid (GR), androgen (AR), thyroid (TR) and VDR-mediated transactivation (By similarity)	Translation
MRPL51	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome large subunit (39S) which comprises a 16S rRNA and about 50 distinct proteins	Translation
FARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-phenylalanine + tRNA(Phe) = AMP + diphosphate + L-phenylalanyl-tRNA(Phe)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase familysimilarity:Contains 1 FDX-ACB domainsubunit:Monomer	Translation
MRPL32	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L32P family	Translation
TUFM	This protein promotes the GTP-dependent binding of aminoacyl-tRNA to the A-site of ribosomes during protein biosynthesis (By similarity)	Translation
NARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-asparagine + tRNA(Asn) = AMP + diphosphate + L-asparaginyl-tRNA(Asn)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
MRPS26	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
CARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-cysteine + tRNA(Cys) = AMP + diphosphate + L-cysteinyl-tRNA(Cys)cofactor:Binds 1 zinc ion per subunitsimilarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
MRPL27	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L27P family	Translation
MRPL23	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L23P family	Translation
MRPL9	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L9P family	Translation
CHCHD1	similarity:Contains 1 CHCH domain	Translation
DARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-aspartate + tRNA(Asp) = AMP + diphosphate + L-aspartyl-tRNA(Asp)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase familysubunit:Homodimer	Translation
MRPL50	Component of the large subunit of mitochondrial ribosome	Translation
MRPS6	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S6P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
PPA2	catalytic activity:Diphosphate + H(2)O = 2 phosphatecofactor:Magnesiumsimilarity:Belongs to the PPase familysubunit:Homodimer	Translation
MRPL38	Component of the large subunit of mitochondrial ribosome	Translation
CCDC58	similarity:Belongs to the CCDC58 family	Translation
MRPL41	Component of the mitochondrial ribosome large subunit. Also involved in apoptosis and cell cycle. Enhances TP53/p53 stability, thereby contributing to TP53/p53-induced apoptosis in response to growth-inhibitory condition. Enhances TP53/p53 translocation to the mitochondria. Has the ability to arrest the cell cycle at the G1 phase, possibly by stabilizing the CDKN1A and CDKN1B (p27Kip1) proteins (By similarity)	Translation
RMND1	similarity:Belongs to the RMD1/sif2 family	Translation
PTRH1	peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase 1 homolog (S. cerevisiae)	Translation
SARS2	Catalyzes the attachment of serine to tRNA(Ser). Is also able to aminoacylate tRNA(Sec) with serine, to form the misacylated tRNA L-seryl-tRNA(Sec), which will be further converted into selenocysteinyl-tRNA(Sec) (By similarity)	Translation
BPHL	function:Serine hydrolase that catalyzes the hydrolytic activation of amino acid ester prodrugs of nucleoside analogs such as valacyclovir and valganciclovir. Activates valacyclovir to acyclovir. May play a role in detoxification processessimilarity:Belongs to the AB hydrolase superfamily. Lipase familysubunit:Monomer	Translation
MRPL37	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S30/L37 family	Translation
MRPS24	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
HARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-histidine + tRNA(His) = AMP + diphosphate + L-histidyl-tRNA(His)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
AURKAIP1	function:May act as a negative regulator of Aurora-A kinase, by down-regulation through proteasome-dependent degradationsubunit:Interacts with Aurora-Atissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed and especially highly expressed in heart, skeletal muscle and testis	Translation
MRPL47	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L47em family	Translation
1700021F05RIK	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I and IV assembly	Translation
MTG1	Mitochondrial GTPase. May be involved in assembly of the large ribosomal subunit (By similarity)	Translation
TRNT1	Adds and repairs the conserved 3'-CCA sequence necessary for the attachment of amino acids to the 3' terminus of tRNA molecules, using CTP and ATP as substrates (By similarity)	Translation
MRPS25	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S25/L51 familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL14	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L14P family	Translation
MRPS30	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S30/L37 familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPS16	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S16P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
RMDN1	regulator of microtubule dynamics 1	Translation
MRPL36	Component of the large subunit of mitochondrial ribosome (Potential)	Translation
ICT1	immature colon carcinoma transcript 1	Translation
2810006K23RIK	similarity:Belongs to the prokaryotic/mitochondrial release factor family	Translation
MTG2	similarity: Small G proteins, such as GTPBP5, act as molecular switches that play crucial roles in the regulation of fundamental cellular processes such as protein synthesis, nuclear transport, membrane trafficking, and signal transduction (Hirano et al 2006 [PubMed 17054726]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Translation
MRPS11	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S11P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
RARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-arginine + tRNA(Arg) = AMP + diphosphate + L-arginyl-tRNA(Arg)similarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
GADD45GIP1	Acts as a negative regulator of G1 to S cell cycle phase progression by inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinases. Inhibitory effects are additive with GADD45 proteins but occurs also in the absence of GADD45 proteins. Acts as a repressor of the orphan nuclear receptor NR4A1 by inhibiting AB domain-mediated transcriptional activity. May be involved in the hormone-mediated regulation of NR4A1 transcriptional activity (By similarity)	Translation
NGRN	neugrin, neurite outgrowth associated	Translation
MRP63	mitochondrial ribosomal protein 63	Translation
PTCD3	similarity:Belongs to the PTCD3 familysimilarity:Contains 10 PPR (pentatricopeptide) repeats	Translation
MRPL45	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L45 family	Translation
TARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-threonine + tRNA(Thr) = AMP + diphosphate + L-threonyl-tRNA(Thr)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
TRIT1	Catalyzes the transfer of a dimethylallyl group onto the adenine at position 37 of both cytosolic and mitochondrial tRNAs, leading to the formation of N6-(dimethylallyl)adenosine (i(6)A) (By similarity)	Translation
TRMU	Catalyzes the 2-thiolation of uridine at the wobble position (U34) of mitochondrial tRNA(Lys), tRNA(Glu) and tRNA(Gln). Required for the formation of 5-taurinomethyl-2- thiouridine (tm5s2U) of mitochondrial tRNA(Lys), tRNA(Glu), and tRNA(Gln) at the wobble position. ATP is required to activate the C2 atom of the wobble base (By similarity)	Translation
VARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-valine + tRNA(Val) = AMP + diphosphate + L-valyl-tRNA(Val)sequence caution:The sequence differs from that shown because it seems to be derived from a pre-mRNAsequence caution:Translation N-terminally shortenedsimilarity:Belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
METTL17	May be a component of the mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit (By similarity)	Translation
RNMTL1	RNA methyltransferase like 1	Translation
MRPL39	similarity:To the N-terminal of threonyl-tRNA synthetases	Translation
MRPS17	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S17P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
NOA1	similarity: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded GTPase that functions in the mitochondrion. Upon translation, this protein is imported into the nucleus and then into the nucleolus before being exported to the mitochondrion. The encoded protein is required for oxygen-dependent regulation of mitochondrial respiratory complexes and for mitochondrial protein synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015],	Translation
MTRF1L	Mitochondrial peptide chain release factor that directs the termination of translation in response to the peptide chain termination codons UAA and UAG (By similarity)	Translation
GARS	catalytic activity:ATP + glycine + tRNA(Gly) = AMP + diphosphate + glycyl-tRNA(Gly)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase familysimilarity:Contains 1 WHEP-TRS domainsubunit:Homodimer	Translation
EARS2	Catalyzes the attachment of glutamate to tRNA(Glu) in a two-step reaction: glutamate is first activated by ATP to form Glu-AMP and then transferred to the acceptor end of tRNA(Glu) (By similarity)	Translation
MTFMT	Formylates methionyl-tRNA in mitochondria. A single tRNA(Met) gene gives rise to both an initiator and an elongator species via an unknown mechanism (By similarity)	Translation
MRPS33	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPS36	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
OSGEPL1	O-sialoglycoprotein endopeptidases specifically cleave the polypeptide backbone of membrane glycoproteins that contain clusters of O-linked sialoglycans (By similarity)	Translation
PUS1	Converts specific uridines to PSI in a number of tRNA substrates. Acts on positions 27/28 in the anticodon stem and also positions 34 and 36 in the anticodon of an intron containing tRNA. Involved in regulation of nuclear receptor activity possibly through pseudouridylation of SRA1 RNA. Isoforms 3 and 4 do not form pseudouridine when expressed in vitro	Translation
HEMK1	similarity:Belongs to the hemK family	Translation
MRPL52	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome large subunit (39S) which comprises a 16S rRNA and about 50 distinct proteins	Translation
MPV17L2	similarity:Belongs to the peroxisomal membrane protein PXMP2/4 family	Translation
MRPL18	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein L18P family	Translation
TRMT2B	Probable S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methlytransferase that catalyzes the formation of 5-methyl-uridine at position 54 (M-5-U54) in all tRNA. May also have a role in tRNA stabilization or maturation (By similarity)	Translation
GTPBP3	function:GTPase involved in the 5-carboxymethylaminomethyl modification (mnm(5)s(2)U34) of the wobble uridine base in mitochondrial tRNAssimilarity:Belongs to the era/mnmE GTP-binding protein family. MnmE subfamilytissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed. Highly expressed in tissues with high metabolic rates including heart, liver and brain. Weakly expressed in skeletal muscle	Translation
MRPS31	subunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
KARS	catalytic activity:ATP + L-lysine + tRNA(Lys) = AMP + diphosphate + L-lysyl-tRNA(Lys)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase familysubunit:Homodimer (By similarity); also part of a multisubunit complex that groups tRNA ligases for Arg, Asp, Glu, Gln, Ile, Leu, Lys, Met and Pro	Translation
MRPL42	caution:Has been found in the mitochondrial ribosome large and small subunitsubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome large subunit (39S) which comprises a 16S rRNA and about 50 distinct proteins. Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
RPUSD3	similarity:Belongs to the pseudouridine synthase rluA family	Translation
PARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-proline + tRNA(Pro) = AMP + diphosphate + L-prolyl-tRNA(Pro)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
QRSL1	catalytic activity:ATP + L-glutamyl-tRNA(Gln) + L-glutamine = ADP + phosphate + L-glutaminyl-tRNA(Gln) + L-glutamatesimilarity:Belongs to the amidase family	Translation
NSUN4	function:May have S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyl-transferase activity similarity:Belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily. RsmB/NOP family	Translation
PTCD1	similarity:Contains 9 PPR (pentatricopeptide) repeats	Translation
RPUSD4	similarity:Belongs to the pseudouridine synthase rluA family	Translation
PTRH2	catalytic activity:N-substituted aminoacyl-tRNA + H(2)O = N-substituted amino acid + tRNAfunction:The natural substrate for this enzyme may be peptidyl-tRNAs which drop off the ribosome during protein synthesissimilarity:Belongs to the PTH2 familysubunit:Monomer	Translation
AARS2	catalytic activity:ATP + L-alanine + tRNA(Ala) = AMP + diphosphate + L-alanyl-tRNA(Ala)similarity:Belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family	Translation
RPS18	ribosomal protein S18	Translation
TARS	threonyl-tRNA synthetase	Translation
TRMT1	tRNA methyltransferase 1	Translation
MTIF3	IF-3 binds to the 28S ribosomal subunit and shifts the equilibrum between 55S ribosomes and their 39S and 28S subunits in favor of the free subunits, thus enhancing the availability of 28S subunits on which protein synthesis initiation begins (By similarity)	Translation
GLYAT	Mitochondrial acyltransferase which transfers the acyl group to the N-terminus of glycine. Can conjugate a multitude of substrates to form a variety of N-acylglycines (By similarity)	Translation
RBFA	similarity:Belongs to the rbfA family	Translation
GTPBP10	function:May be involved in the ribosome maturation processsimilarity:Belongs to the GTP1/OBG familysubcellular location:Found in the dense fibrillar compartment region of the nucleolus	Translation
MRPS18B	similarity:Belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P familysubunit:Component of the mitochondrial ribosome small subunit (28S) which comprises a 12S rRNA and about 30 distinct proteins	Translation
MRPL48	sequence caution:Contaminating sequence. Vector contamination at the N-terminus	Translation
DDX28	May be involved in RNA processing or transport. Has RNA and Mg(2+)-dependent ATPase activity (By similarity)	Translation
QTRT1	Exchanges the guanine residue with 7-aminomethyl-7- deazaguanine in tRNAs with GU(N) anticodons (tRNA-Asp, -Asn, -His and -Tyr). After this exchange, a cyclopentendiol moiety is attached to the 7-aminomethyl group of 7-deazaguanine, resulting in the hypermodified nucleoside queuosine (Q) (7-(((4,5-cis- dihydroxy-2-cyclopenten-1-yl)amino)methyl)-7-deazaguanosine) (By similarity)	Translation
RPL10A	ribosomal protein L10A	Translation
RPS14	ribosomal protein S14	Translation
PUSL1	catalytic activity:tRNA uridine = tRNA pseudouridinesimilarity:Belongs to the tRNA pseudouridine synthase truA family	Translation
RARS	arginyl-tRNA synthetase	Translation
PSTK	Specifically phosphorylates seryl-tRNA(Sec) to O- phosphoseryl-tRNA(Sec), an activated intermediate for selenocysteine biosynthesis. No activity with other tRNAs has been detected	Translation
ND4L	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 4L	Translation
GTPBP6	GTP binding protein 6 (putative)	Translation
WBSCR16	Williams-Beuren syndrome chromosome region 16 homolog (human)	Translation
ANGEL2	angel homolog 2 (Drosophila)	Translation
THG1L	function:Adds a GMP to the 5'-end of tRNA(His) after transcription and RNase P cleavagePTM:Phosphorylated upon DNA damage, probably by ATM or ATRsimilarity:Belongs to the tRNA(His) guanylyltransferase family	Translation
NSUN3	function:May have S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyl-transferase activity similarity:Belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily. RsmB/NOP family	Translation
RPL34	ribosomal protein L34	Translation
TRMT11	Catalytic subunit of an S-adenosyl-L-methionine- dependent tRNA methyltransferase complex that mediates the methylation of the guanosine nucleotide at position 10 (m2G10) in tRNAs (By similarity)	Translation
MT-Rnr1	12S ribosomal RNA, mitochondrially encoded	Translation (MT)
MT-Rnr2	16S ribosomal RNA, mitochondrially encoded	Translation (MT)
MT-Ta	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for alanine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tc	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for cysteine	Translation (MT)
MT-Td	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for aspartic acid	Translation (MT)
MT-Te	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for glutamic acid	Translation (MT)
MT-Tf	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for phenylalanine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tg	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for glycine	Translation (MT)
MT-Th	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for histidine	Translation (MT)
MT-Ti	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for isoleucine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tk	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for lysine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tl1	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for leucine 1 (UUA/G)	Translation (MT)
MT-Tl2	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for leucine 2 (CUN)	Translation (MT)
MT-Tm	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for methionine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tn	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for asparagine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tp	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for proline	Translation (MT)
MT-Tq	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for glutamine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tr	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for arginine	Translation (MT)
MT-Ts1	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for serine 1 (UCN)	Translation (MT)
MT-Ts2	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for serine 2 (AGU/C)	Translation (MT)
MT-Tt	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for threonine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tv	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for valine	Translation (MT)
MT-Tw	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for tryptophan	Translation (MT)
MT-Ty	mitochondrially encoded tRNA for tyrosine	Translation (MT)
ABCE1	Antagonizes the binding of 2-5A (5'-phosphorylated 2',5'-linked oligoadenylates) by RNase L through direct interaction with RNase L and therefore inhibits its endoribonuclease activity. May play a central role in the regulation of mRNA turnover. Antagonizes the anti-viral effect of the interferon-regulated 2-5A/RNase L pathway (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport
VDAC1	Forms a channel through the mitochondrial outer membrane and also the plasma membrane. The channel at the outer mitochondrial membrane allows diffusion of small hydrophilic molecules; in the plasma membrane it is involved in cell volume regulation and apoptosis. It adopts an open conformation at low or zero membrane potential and a closed conformation at potentials above 30-40 mV. The open state has a weak anion selectivity whereas the closed state is cation-selective. May participate in the formation of the permeability transition pore complex (PTPC) responsible for the release of mitochondrial products that triggers apoptosis	Transmembrane Transport
ABCB10	May mediate critical mitochondrial transport functions related to heme biosynthesis	Transmembrane Transport
VDAC2	Forms a channel through the mitochondrial outer membrane that allows diffusion of small hydrophilic molecules. The channel adopts an open conformation at low or zero membrane potential and a closed conformation at potentials above 30-40 mV. The open state has a weak anion selectivity whereas the closed state is cation- selective (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport
ABCB8	This nuclear gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is targeted to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The encoded protein is an ATP-dependent transporter that may mediate the passage of organic and inorganic molecules out of the mitochondria. Loss of function of the related gene in mouse results in a disruption of iron homeostasis between the mitochondria and cytosol. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013],	Transmembrane Transport
ABCB7	Could be involved in the transport of heme from the mitochondria to the cytosol. Plays a central role in the maturation of cytosolic iron-sulfur (Fe/S) cluster-containing proteins (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport
PRELID2	similarity:Contains 1 PRELI/MSF1 domain	Transmembrane Transport
VDAC3	Forms a channel through the mitochondrial outer membrane that allows diffusion of small hydrophilic molecules (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport
SFXN1	Might be involved in the transport of a component required for iron utilization into or out of the mitochondria	Transmembrane Transport
ABCD3	similarity:Belongs to the ABC transporter familysimilarity:Belongs to the ABC transporter family. ALD subfamilysimilarity:Contains 1 ABC transmembrane type-1 domainsimilarity:Contains 1 ABC transporter domainsubunit:Homodimer or heterodimer (Potential). Interacts with PEX19	Transmembrane Transport
SFXN3	Potential iron transporter	Transmembrane Transport
SLC16A1	solute carrier family 16 (monocarboxylic acid transporters), member 1	Transmembrane Transport
MRS2	Magnesium transporter that may mediate the influx of magnesium into the mitochondrial matrix (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport
ABCB6	Binds heme and porphyrins and functions in their ATP- dependent uptake into the mitochondria. Plays a crucial role in heme synthesis	Transmembrane Transport
SLC25A17	solute carrier family 25 (mitochondrial carrier, peroxisomal membrane protein), member 17	Transmembrane Transport
SFXN5	Transports citrate. Potential iron transporter (By similarity)	Transmembrane Transport
FAM210B	similarity:Contains 1 DUF1279 domain	Transmembrane Transport
SFXN2	Potential iron transporter	Transmembrane Transport
SLC37A4	solute carrier family 37 (glucose-6-phosphate transporter), member 4	Transmembrane Transport
SLC25A54	solute carrier family 25, member 54	Transmembrane Transport
NIPSNAP3A	similarity: NIPSNAP3A belongs to a family of proteins with putative roles in vesicular transport (Buechler et al 2004 [PubMed 15177564]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008],	Transmembrane Transport
NIPSNAP3B	similarity:Belongs to the NipSnap familysubcellular location:May be part of some vesicular structure distinct from lysosomal vesicles (By similarity). Also found in mitochondrion	Transmembrane Transport
SFXN4	Potential iron transporter	Transmembrane Transport
ABCF2	caution:Lacks transmembrane domains and is probably not involved in transportsimilarity:Belongs to the ABC transporter familysimilarity:Belongs to the ABC transporter family. EF3 subfamilysimilarity:Contains 2 ABC transporter domains	Transmembrane Transport
SLC30A6	solute carrier family 30 (zinc transporter), member 6	Transmembrane Transport
OGDH	catalytic activity:2-oxoglutarate + [dihydrolipoyllysine-residue succinyltransferase] lipoyllysine = [dihydrolipoyllysine-residue succinyltransferase] S-succinyldihydrolipoyllysine + CO(2)cofactor:Thiamine pyrophosphateenzyme regulation:Catabolite repressedfunction:The 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)similarity:Belongs to the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase family	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
MDH2	catalytic activity:(S)-malate + NAD(+) = oxaloacetate + NADHPTM:Acetylation of Lys-239 and Lys-314 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamily. MDH type 1 familysubunit:Homodimer	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
PDHX	Required for anchoring dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) to the dihydrolipoamide transacetylase (E2) core of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complexes of eukaryotes. This specific binding is essential for a functional PDH complex (By similarity)	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
DLST	The 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of 3 enzymatic components: 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) (By similarity)	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
FH1	catalytic activity:(S)-malate = fumarate + H(2)Omiscellaneous:There are 2 substrate binding sites: the catalytic A site, and the non-catalytic B site that may play a role in the transfer of substrate or product between the active site and the solvent. Alternatively, the B site may bind allosteric effectorspathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; tricarboxylic acid cyclePTM:Acetylation of Lys-474 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micePTM:Isoform Cytoplasmic is acetylated at position 2similarity:Belongs to the class-II fumarase/aspartase family. Fumarase subfamilysubunit:Homotetramer	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
IDH3A	catalytic activity:Isocitrate + NAD(+) = 2-oxoglutarate + CO(2) + NADHcofactor:Binds 1 magnesium or manganese ion per subunitsimilarity:Belongs to the isocitrate and isopropylmalate dehydrogenases familysubunit:Heterooligomer of subunits alpha, beta, and gamma in the apparent ratio of 2:1:1	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
SUCLA2	catalytic activity:ATP + succinate + CoA = ADP + phosphate + succinyl-CoApathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; tricarboxylic acid cyclesimilarity:Belongs to the succinate/malate CoA ligase beta subunit familysimilarity:Contains 1 ATP-grasp domainsubunit:Heterodimer of an alpha and a beta subunit	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
SUCLG1	catalytic activity:GTP + succinate + CoA = GDP + phosphate + succinyl-CoApathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; tricarboxylic acid cyclesimilarity:Belongs to the succinate/malate CoA ligase alpha subunit familysubunit:Heterodimer of an alpha and a beta subunit	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
CS	catalytic activity:Acetyl-CoA + H(2)O + oxaloacetate = citrate + CoAmiscellaneous:Citrate synthase is found in nearly all cells capable of oxidative metabolismpathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; tricarboxylic acid cyclesimilarity:Belongs to the citrate synthase familysubunit:Homodimer	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
IDH3B	similarity:Belongs to the isocitrate and isopropylmalate dehydrogenases family	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
DLD	catalytic activity:Protein N(6)-(dihydrolipoyl)lysine + NAD(+) = protein N(6)-(lipoyl)lysine + NADHcofactor:Binds 1 FAD per subunitfunction:Lipoamide dehydrogenase is a component of the glycine cleavage system as well as of the alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complexesmiscellaneous:The active site is a redox-active disulfide bondPTM:Acetylation of Lys-127 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase familysubunit:Homodimer. Eukaryotic pyruvate dehydrogenase complexes are organized about a core consisting of the oligomeric dihydrolipoamide acetyl-transferase, around which are arranged multiple copies of pyruvate dehydrogenase, dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase and protein X bound by non-covalent bonds	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
ACO2	catalytic activity:Citrate = isocitratecofactor:Binds 1 4Fe-4S cluster per subunit. Binding of a 3Fe-4S cluster leads to an inactive enzymepathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; tricarboxylic acid cyclePTM:Acetylation of Lys-50 is observed in liver mitochondria from fasted mice but not from fed micesimilarity:Belongs to the aconitase/IPM isomerase familysubunit:Monomer	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
IDH3G	catalytic activity:Isocitrate + NAD(+) = 2-oxoglutarate + CO(2) + NADHcofactor:Binds 1 magnesium or manganese ion per subunitenzyme regulation:Activated by increasing ADP/ATP ratios and by Ca(2+)similarity:Belongs to the isocitrate and isopropylmalate dehydrogenases familysubunit:Heterooligomer of subunits alpha, beta, and gamma in the apparent ratio of 2:1:1	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
PPTC7	catalytic activity:A phosphoprotein + H(2)O = a protein + phosphatecofactor:Magnesium or manganese similarity:Belongs to the PP2C familysimilarity:Contains 1 PP2C-like domain	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
SUCLG2	catalytic activity:GTP + succinate + CoA = GDP + phosphate + succinyl-CoApathway:Carbohydrate metabolism; tricarboxylic acid cyclesimilarity:Belongs to the succinate/malate CoA ligase beta subunit familysimilarity:Contains 1 ATP-grasp domainsubunit:Heterodimer of an alpha and a beta subunit	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
OGDHL	similarity: cofactor:Thiamine pyrophosphatesimilarity:Belongs to the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase family	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
IDH2	catalytic activity:Isocitrate + NADP(+) = 2-oxoglutarate + CO(2) + NADPHcatalytic activity:Oxalosuccinate + NADP(+) = 2-oxoglutarate + CO(2) + NADPHcofactor:Binds 1 magnesium or manganese ion per subunitfunction:Plays a role in intermediary metabolism and energy production. It may tightly associate or interact with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complexinduction:By oxidative stress (at protein level)similarity:Belongs to the isocitrate and isopropylmalate dehydrogenases familysubunit:Homodimertissue specificity:Heart > kidney >> other tissues	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
CSL	similarity:Belongs to the citrate synthase family	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
NNT	The transhydrogenation between NADH and NADP is coupled to respiration and ATP hydrolysis and functions as a proton pump across the membrane	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
MDH1	catalytic activity:(S)-malate + NAD(+) = oxaloacetate + NADHsimilarity:Belongs to the LDH/MDH superfamily. MDH type 2 familysubunit:Homodimer	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
IDH1	catalytic activity:Isocitrate + NADP(+) = 2-oxoglutarate + CO(2) + NADPHcatalytic activity:Oxalosuccinate + NADP(+) = 2-oxoglutarate + CO(2) + NADPHcofactor:Binds 1 magnesium or manganese ion per subunitsimilarity:Belongs to the isocitrate and isopropylmalate dehydrogenases familysubunit:Homodimer	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
ACO1	Binds to iron-responsive elements (IRES), which are stem-loop structures found in the 5'-UTR of ferritin, and delta aminolevulinic acid synthase mRNAs, and in the 3'-UTR of transferrin receptor mRNA. Binding to the IRE element in ferritin results in the repression of its mRNA translation. Binding of the protein to the transferrin receptor mRNA inhibits the degradation of this otherwise rapidly degraded mRNA. This protein also expresses aconitase activity	Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle
COQ9	Involved in the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q (By similarity)	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
COQ7	Potential central metabolic regulator	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
COQ5	Converts DDMQH2 into DMQH2 (By similarity)	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
COQ3	catalytic activity:S-adenosyl-L-methionine + 3-hexaprenyl-4,5-dihydroxybenzoate = S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine + 3-hexaprenyl-4-hydroxy-5-methoxybenzoatepathway:Cofactor biosynthesis; ubiquinone biosynthesissimilarity:Belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily. UbiG/COQ3 family	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
COQ6	cofactor:FAD pathway:Cofactor biosynthesis; ubiquinone biosynthesissimilarity:Belongs to the ubiH/COQ6 family	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
COQ4	pathway:Cofactor biosynthesis; ubiquinone biosynthesissimilarity:Belongs to the COQ4 family	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
COQ2	Catalyzes the prenylation of para-hydroxybenzoate (PHB) with an all-trans polyprenyl group. Mediates the second step in the final reaction sequence of coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesis, which is the condensation of the polyisoprenoid side chain with PHB (By similarity)	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
PDSS2	Supplies decaprenyl diphosphate, the precursor for the side chain of the isoprenoid quinones ubiquinone-10	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
PDSS1	Supplies decaprenyl diphosphate, the precursor for the side chain of the isoprenoid quinones ubiquinone-10	Ubiquinone Biosynthesis
GATD3A	similarity: This gene encodes a potential mitochondrial protein that is a member of the DJ-1/PfpI gene family. This protein is overexpressed in fetal Down syndrome brain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	Unknown MT process
PNKD	Probable hydrolase that plays an aggravative role in the development of cardiac hypertrophy via activation of the NF-kappa- B signaling pathway	Unknown MT process
TMEM126A	similarity:Belongs to the TMEM126 family	Unknown MT process
C030006K11RIK	similarity:Belongs to the UPF0598 family	Unknown MT process
BC003965	similarity:Belongs to the CCSMST1 family	Unknown MT process
C330018D20RIK	similarity:Belongs to the glutaredoxin family. YDR286C subfamily	Unknown MT process
SPATA19	May have a role in spermiogenesis	Unknown MT process
TMEM143	protein likely involved in transmembrane transport (similarity)	Unknown MT process
HSDL1	caution:Although related to the SDR family, lacks the conserved active Tyr residue in position 218 which is replaced by a Phe, suggesting that it may lack oxidoreductase activitysimilarity:Belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family. 17-beta-HSD 3 subfamily	Unknown MT process
RSAD1	May be involved in porphyrin cofactor biosynthesis (By similarity)	Unknown MT process
MYG1	developmental stage:Strongly up-regulated from E7 to E11. Widely expressed at E8.5. At E11.75, expression is strongest in developing neuroepithelium and eyesimilarity:Belongs to the UPF0160 (MYG1) familytissue specificity:Ubiquitously expressed, with highest levels in testis	Unknown MT process
ATF5	ATF5 expression can rescue UPR(mt) signaling in atfs-1-deficient worms requiring the same UPR(mt) promoter element identified in C. elegans. Furthermore, mammalian cells require ATF5 to maintain mitochondrial activity during mitochondrial stress and promote organelle recovery. Combined, these data suggest that regulation of the UPR(mt) is conserved from worms to mammals.	UPRmt
DDIT3	This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negative inhibitor by forming heterodimers with other C/EBP members, such as C/EBP and LAP (liver activator protein), and preventing their DNA binding activity. The protein is implicated in adipogenesis and erythropoiesis, is activated by endoplasmic reticulum stress, and promotes apoptosis. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in myxoid liposarcomas or Ewing sarcoma. 	UPRmt
KDM6B	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysine-specific demethylase that specifically demethylates di- or tri-methylated lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me2 or H3K27me3). H3K27 trimethylation is a repressive epigenetic mark controlling chromatin organization and gene silencing. This protein can also demethylate non-histone proteins such as retinoblastoma protein. Through its demethylation actvity this gene influences cellular differentiation and development, tumorigenesis, inflammatory diseases, and neurodegenerative diseases. This protein has two classical nuclear localization signals at its N-terminus. 	UPRmt
PHF8	The protein encoded by this gene is a histone lysine demethylase that preferentially acts on histones in the monomethyl or dimethyl states. The encoded protein requires Fe(2+) ion, 2-oxoglutarate, and oxygen for its catalytic activity. The protein has an N-terminal PHD finger and a central Jumonji C domain. This gene is thought to function as a transcription activator. Defects in this gene are a cause of syndromic X-linked Siderius type intellectual disability (MRXSSD) and over-expression of this gene is associated with several forms of cancer. 	UPRmt
SATB1	This gene encodes a matrix protein which binds nuclear matrix and scaffold-associating DNAs through a unique nuclear architecture. The protein recruits chromatin-remodeling factors in order to regulate chromatin structure and gene expression.	UPRmt
SATB2	This gene encodes a DNA binding protein that specifically binds nuclear matrix attachment regions. The encoded protein is involved in transcription regulation and chromatin remodeling. Defects in this gene are associated with isolated cleft palate and cognitive disability. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.	UPRmt
UBL5	This gene encodes a member of a group of proteins similar to ubiquitin. The encoded protein is not thought to degrade proteins like ubiquitin but to affect their function through being bound to target proteins by an isopeptide bond. The gene product has been studied as a link to predisposition to obesity based on its expression in Psammomys obesus, the fat sand rat, which is an animal model for obesity studies. Variation in this gene was found to be significantly associated with some metabolic traits (PMID: 15331561) but not associated with childhood obesity (PMID: 19189687). 	UPRmt
TESTmm	TESTmm	TESTmm